Investors was paralyzed waiting to see
how the conflict ends.
>> It's almost like the market is saying,
maybe [music] this can still be a
short-lived event. Markets are repricing
the front end pretty aggressively.
>> The rates market so far is definitely
weighing the inflationary [music]
impact.
>> This is a ruthlessly efficient market in
exposing kind of where the fault lines
are.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne-Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning to our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Friday attempting to de-escalate.
>> Israel acted alone against the Eslovia
gas compound. President Trump asked us
to hold off on future attacks.
>> It's coordinated, but on occasion he'll
do something and if I don't like it and
so we're not doing that anymore.
>> The US and Israel vowing to avoid
targeting Iran's energy as the Brent
crude money is heading towards a fifth
week of gains. It's leaving central
banks in Europe gearing up for potential
rate hikes. The ECB opening the door to
a move.
>> And this is because this is going to
have a tremendous [music] amount of
inflationary pressures, especially if
this conflict persists, which at the
moment it is. You do see Benjamin
Netanyahu and President Trump saying
energy facilities at this point this
point are basically taken off the
targeting list. The problem is we do see
the Iranians continue to target energy
infrastructure. [music] Like this
morning, they were targeting Kuwait.
This struck out to me, Jonathan, from
the Qatari energy CEO, Saad Al Kaabi.
He's talking about the damage sustained
by the LNG facilities will take three to
five years to repair and this means that
they will be compelled to declare force
majeure for up to five years on some
long-term LNG contracts. Who does that
affect? Europe.
>> That was the change. That was the change
yesterday, that moment in the last 24
hours where the market's attention
shifted. It's been very focused on
potentially short-term transit risk and
now all of a sudden focused on the
potential for long-term production risk.
That was the wake-up call, I think, for
me and for many others, too.
>> Short-term was the straight of her
moves.
The Iranians have full control.
Individuals are going to them, different
countries on a bilateral basis trying to
get their tankers through. [music] The
product is still there. We just have an
issue transporting it. Now, the product
is being damaged. [music] And how long
is that going to take to recoup? And we
are seeing physical barrels come off the
market [music] potentially for a lot
longer.
>> Check out the moves in energy. European
gas, those prices have almost doubled
since this war started. Brent crude up
by 50%. Refined products absolutely
surging. That's the energy move. Push it
through the bond market. At the front
end of the UK curve, we've had an almost
100 basis point move since this war
started. That's the two-year. The
10-year, the yield just moments ago the
highest since 2008.
These moves building across Europe
cascading through financial market.
>> And you can see that [music] when it
comes to the BOE yesterday, when it
comes to the ECB, they are concerned
about the inflationary impact. Jim Reid
this morning from Deutsche Bank points
out at this point the Fed is the only
G10 central bank that is still, albeit
very marginally, pricing easing later
this year. [music] At one point
yesterday, markets are looking at
potentially, we are going to be in for
hikes.
>> Just a bit of tension this morning.
Equity futures negative by 0.5%
stateside. Coming up this hour, John
Stoltzfus of Oppenheimer with stocks
looking to snap a two-day slide. We're
in talks veteran General Robert Walsh as
the US and Israel pledge to avoid
targeting energy sites and Kelsey Barrow
of JP Morgan Asset Management as
inflation concerns weigh on the global
bond market. We begin this hour with our
top story, the US and Israel pledging to
stop targeting oil and gas sites in
Iran. Bloomberg's Joumana Bercetche
joins us now from Dubai. Joumana,
welcome to the program. It's an attempt
to de-escalate. Is it working?
>> Yeah, so I would reframe that and say it
is an attempt to de-escalate part of the
war that is going on. I think what's
become apparent in the last 24 hours is
the Israeli air strikes on that Iranian
gas fields were one step too far, a red
line so to speak in terms of the joint
military operations between the US and
Israel. President Trump trying to
distance self from it and actually
there's really Prime Minister gave a
press conference yesterday where he said
Israel acted alone and at the US's
request they will no longer be targeting
Iranian energy infrastructure. So that
is the comment that came through.
However, that is not to say that there's
a de-intensifying
of this war that's going on. The attacks
and counterattacks have continued. It is
day 21, it's been going on for 3 weeks.
Very heavy wave of air strikes over
central Tehran this morning. The IDF
saying that they're continuing to attack
regime infrastructure, that is the
language they used. Some reports coming
through from Iranian media suggesting
that perhaps this time they've also
targeted some key personnel in the IRGC
waiting for confirmation of that. And in
response Iran continues to strike back
at Gulf states and at energy
infrastructure. For the second day in
the row we see a
Kuwaiti refinery being targeted. It is
now halted production.
Ongoing drones intercepted in Saudi
Arabia, the eastern part of the country,
the northern part of the country. And
over here where I am in Dubai more
interceptions overnight as well. Plus we
got more colors as Anne-Marie was just
saying from Qatar Energies about the
extent of the damage that was leveled at
their LNG trains. And they're talking
about 20 billion dollars of annual
revenue that's lost. It's going to take
3 to 5 years to get back to normal
again. 17% of their capacity has been
wiped out. Not just there, also remember
the two gas fields in the UAE were also
targeted too. So you have to think about
this in terms of the aggregate damage
that has been leveled over the course of
the war. Not just the flow day-to-day,
but the stock of damage and how long
it's going to take for this physical
repair to take place. At the same time,
there hasn't been a lot of progress on
the strait itself, and I will just end
with a comment from President Trump
himself. He was asked about the strait,
and he said, "The only thing is the
strait, it's very hard. You could take
two people, and they could drop little
bombs in the water, and they're holding
things up." And I think the takeaway
from all of this is as long as the
strait remains effectively shut, you're
going to continue to see this upward
pressure on oil prices, on gas prices,
and of course now you have to account
for the longer-term possibility of
physical damage in the region, too.
>> That's the reality on the ground.
Jumana, always appreciate the update.
Jumana Ghazi there in Dubai leading our
coverage out of the region. Compare the
reality on the ground to what we heard
from the Israeli Prime Minister in the
last 24 hours, and those comments
helping to support markets going into
the close yesterday. One, can end a lot
faster than people think. Two,
>> Israel can maybe help with the Strait of
Hormuz, but at the same time, like
Jumana just pointed out, what the
president is talking about, you can have
one of these asymmetric hits, whether
it's a drone, whether it's a mine that's
dropped into the strait, and it could
potentially be maybe some even rogue
actors, especially right now, given the
fact that it's very unclear who is in
charge, given the absolute decimation of
the top brass of the IRGC and the
regime.
>> We keep going through this framework.
We've had the energy shock. Now we're
pricing a rate shock, and doing it
really, really quickly. We priced out
the easing at the Federal Reserve. We're
pricing in rate hikes elsewhere, at the
Bank of England, at the ECB. Deutsche
Bank overnight now forecasting two hikes
from the ECB this year. This market is
pricing three. Three interest rate hikes
fully priced at the European Central
Bank. That headline crossing just
moments ago.
>> It's unbelievable. This was supposed to
be potentially the year of easing, or
potentially the year of everything on
hold. More energy was going to be
needed, and we had a glut, and that was
going to the AI trade. Now, it has
absolutely flipped a script. I go back
to what Jeff Currie said this week. It's
basically COVID in reverse when it comes
to supply and demand dynamics.
>> Let's get you the view on Wall Street
this morning. This is from John
Stoltzfus of Oppenheimer. He's telling
investors to stay the course. He writes
the following, "Exercising patience and
staying focused on longer-term
objectives can help to avoid being
whipsawed." John, welcome to the
program, buddy. Typically, you're
bullish, you're constructive. It felt
different for a moment yesterday. There
was this moment yesterday in this market
where we taken the moving energy, priced
it into rates, and started to reprice
growth. It lasted a few hours, then we
backed away from it. John, what do you
make of the repricing to the growth
story we've seen over the last few days,
and where are we in that process this
morning?
>> All right, great to be on the show this
morning with you, Jonathan. I got to say
the first thing off is is, you know, you
have to differentiate the difference
between traders and
and private investors. The intermediate
to longer-term picture with a goal
beyond is a lot different than what it
is on day-to-day.
The problem with
a situation like what we have right now
is everybody wants this thing to go back
to normal and get over this period. Uh
yet, it's going to take longer than
everybody would like, but it probably
will not be as long as some would
project. Usually, the negative
projection goes to the nth degree. It's
driven by traders. They're interested in
the moment. How much can you make? You
know, and and and they're protecting.
You've got to remember, most likely,
highly leveraged capital for the short
term. And so, these moments are very You
you can get whipsawed if you miss the if
you miss the signal for the near-term
noise.
>> John, even if I've got a longer-term
time horizon, at this point, I'd be
thinking, "Why allocate capital now?
There's a risk of 10, 15, 20% downside
if this risk is something that stays
with us for a while, the disruption is
prolonged, and I have to reprice growth.
Coming into this year, a lot of people
were bold up on a lot of different
things for a lot of different reasons.
The rate cuts we'd already seen, the
fiscal easing, the refunds that we'd get
from taxes, the tax refunds, etc. The
tech capex that we'd see over the next
12 months as well. It was quite a
bullish market. The consensus view was
constructive. If I'm sitting here today
with patient capital thinking about
deploying it, why wouldn't I wait and
wait for further downside?
>> Well, if you were already allocated,
okay, and and you're you're positioned
for uh for better growth and and a
better situation ahead, uh you'd likely
uh remain with what you have depending
upon your your uh tolerance for risk, uh
your experience, and the quality of the
financial advisor you're listening to,
uh and what you believe in. Uh the other
side of it really is that when we look
at the situation, the curious thing is,
you know, energy is up 31.78%
year-to-date based on what my
Bloomberg's showing me on the SPXL1GRR
screen. Uh that was about what uh
communication services did for the full
year last year.
Uh so, what we've seen, I think, really
is that oil matters more than anybody
recognized the dependency of the world
on it, uh and the bridge that exists
there. Uh the opportunities seem to be
pretty clear here
uh in our view, and and that is let the
let the diplomacy and the military do
what they need to do, and in the
meantime, prepare for a more positive
outcome that is being projected at the
present time. Remember, last year, first
half of the year, value ruled, second
half of the year, mostly growth yield
ruled until the end of
uh the year when there was a question
about growth going forward. And also, I
remember last year, we had an 18.9%
pullback from February 19th until April
8th. So, you know, it we can have
volatility, but the question is can you
be a rider on the storm
is the real question investors need to
ask themselves and they need to consider
the quality of their convictions.
>> In the meantime, some headlines we need
to pour over John. Forgive me, just need
a couple minutes. This is from Axios.
According to four sources with knowledge
of the issue, the Trump administration
considering plans to occupy a blockade
of Iran's Kharg Island to pressure Iran
to reopen the Strait of Hormuz. That
story dropped in about 20 minutes ago.
>> Well, look, we did have the door opening
to that yesterday. The Treasury
Secretary hinting at saying potentially
remains to be seen whether or not Kharg
Island would become a US asset. The
president has spoke about the fact that
they could take it over and there is
this amphibious assault ship heading
towards the Middle East. These type of
Marines, they are trained for operations
like this.
>> This is the risk John that people are
confronting right now. I understand your
longer-term view, but let's talk a look
at some of the dislocations that have
opened up off the back of this story.
You've got a 6% move in energy stocks so
far this month and a 5% decline in
consumer discretionary. Would you be
willing to fade that story in both
directions right now?
>> Uh well, what what what I look at it
I've got I've got to try to avoid the
noise and continue with the signal. So,
I I will likely in this particular view,
I'm going to want to own energy because
I think this is a reawakening of the
energy story and it's important as a
bridge towards eventually an alternative
energy world. Uh uh related to concern,
now I'm going to be prepared to ride the
storm and if I will carry, we are
carrying portfolios that I manage higher
levels of of uh of cash that we would
normally have after a banner year last
year and still uh knocking on wood, uh
doing okay through this uh particular
period.
>> John, that sounds slightly defensive.
That's not how we started this
conversation.
>> Well, you know, John, you know me. We've
been working together for years in terms
of our conversations and
it's near term. I remain constructive
without a doubt, but I have to recognize
that indeed there is uncertainty right
now, but uncertainty comes with the
markets and historically past
performance don't guarantee future
results. Tends to be where the
opportunity truly lies. When in
hindsight people go, "Gee, I wish I
bought that dip." Or I wish I bought
that period where everybody thought the
world was going to end. Remember April
20th of of of 2020,
people were thinking that it could take
40 years to find a vaccine that would
make people confident enough to go
outside and reopen the economy. And it
happened within 9 months.
>> That was an ugly time. John, it's good
to see you. John Stoltzfus of
Oppenheimer and the decline in the stock
market was a lot bigger than the one
we've seen so far, which is around 5%
from all-time highs on the S&P 500. The
setup this morning equity futures
slightly softer. We're seeing that move
again in interest rates in the bond
market and yields, particularly the
front end of the curve. 2-year bond
yields this morning, 2-year yields are
by 9 basis points, 390 around those
levels right now. That's the price
action. Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Yohai has more. Hey, Yohai.
>> Good morning, John. [music]
Iran stepping up its attacks on energy
sites on neighboring Gulf states [music]
after Israel bombed its primary offshore
natural gas fields earlier this week.
Iran striking an oil refinery in Kuwait
for the second straight day forcing the
plant to shut down some of its units.
Brent has surged over 40% since the war
started nearly 4 weeks ago.
President Donald Trump says he is
resetting his planned trip to China
suggesting it could now happen in
mid-May. Trump was due to head to China
next week, but delayed the trip to focus
on the war with Iran. His meeting with
President Xi Jinping will be closely
watched for progress on trade, and of
course Beijing's reaction
>> [music]
>> to the war.
And President Trump making an
off-the-cuff joke about Pearl Harbor
during his meeting with the Japanese
Prime Minister at the White House. Trump
commenting about after being asked why
the US did not inform allies in advance
of the strike on [music] Iran.
>> Who knows better about surprise than
Japan?
>> [laughter]
>> Okay, why didn't you tell me about Pearl
Harbor?
>> Her face says it all. The president
saying Japan is, quote, "really stepping
up to the plate. We've had tremendous
support and relationship with Japan on
everything."
>> That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Yohai, thanks for the update. More from
Yohai later. This uh slightly awkward
moment in the Oval yesterday.
>> Definitely awkward for the Prime
Minister of Japan. What I would say is
that when Japan attacked Pearl Harbor,
they were not an ally. They were an
enemy. The question was about why didn't
you let allies know.
>> Up next on the program, turning down the
temperature.
>> Israel acted alone against the Hezbollah
uh gas compound. President Trump asked
us to uh hold off on future attacks.
>> It's coordinated, but on occasion he'll
do something, and if I don't like it,
and so we're not doing it that anymore.
>> In just a moment, we'll catch up with
the Marine Corps veteran General Robert
Walsh. His perspective on the war in
Iran. From New York City this morning.
Good morning.
>> Equity futures on the S&P 500 negative
here by 0.7% on the Nasdaq 100 down by
0.9, and the bond market yields are
higher. Two-year yields up up nine basis
points. 10-year yields up by five. In
the commodity market, crude advancing
once again. Brent at 110, [music]
WTI at 96. That's the price action.
Under Savannah this morning, taking down
the temperature. Here's the latest. The
US and Israel working to calm crude
markets. Both countries vowing to avoid
targeting Iran's energy infrastructure
following retaliatory attacks across the
Middle East that fueled an oil spice
spike. Bloomberg's Taylor Kendall
>> [music]
>> joins us now for more. Good morning,
Taylor.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, despite
these pledges from the White House and
Israel, Iran pressed ahead with attacks
against regional countries overnight
including the UAE, Kuwait, and Saudi
Arabia. A State Department spokesperson
tells us the Trump administration has
now approved a $23 billion
package to some of these regional
partners in a bid to bolster their
defenses as these attacks continue
because Iran's foreign minister is
vowing  zero restraint if their
energy infrastructure is hit again as
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu says that Israel acted alone
in that strike against Iran's largest
natural gas field that prompted this
wave of retaliation. This though after
Israeli officials had said the US was
informed about the attack ahead of time.
Netanyahu also went on to say that
Israel intends to help the US try to
reopen the Strait of Hormuz after seven
US allies yesterday released a joint
statement about potentially backing a
coalition to secure the critical
waterway though at this point it's
unclear exactly which measures they
would take. Both Israeli and US
officials have indicated they feel
they're ahead of schedule when it comes
to their objectives as the Defense
Department yesterday said that Iran's
missile capabilities are now down 90%
but John, I will also point out that the
Pentagon is now asking Congress for a
$200 billion supplemental request when
it comes to the war in Iran. There are
real questions brewing on Capitol Hill
about whether a sum that large could
pass and it is leading some to question
whether or not this could indicate that
the administration is gearing up for a
protracted fight.
>> Tana Kendal with the latest in
Washington. Tana, thank you. To build on
that, General Robert Welsh of Academy
Securities writes in the conflict is
transitioning to a war of attrition.
There is no clear checkmate scenario.
General Welsh joins us now for more.
General, welcome to the program, sir.
Are you suggesting this war has entered
a new, more enduring phase?
>> Good morning, John. Jonathan, thanks for
having me today. Um
you know, the war changes as time goes
on. It it it and what we're seeing now
is from a US perspective, it is going
into a little bit more of a war of
attrition. Uh there's military sets that
we've talked about in the past and what
the US military and the Israelis is
trying to take out. They're
systematically doing that. They're very
successful from a military standpoint.
Um but as we see that the nature of
conflict is really a clash of wills and
that clash of wills is going on now
between both, you know, the US,
Israelis, and Iran. And Iran has a say
so in this and what we're seeing from
Iran is they're taking a very asymmetric
approach to this. And their asymmetric
approach is number one, their their
objective is uh the regime to remain.
But we're now seeing what's changing a
little bit in that is they're also
looking at cost imposition on the US and
Israelis and also the Gulf partners and
the rest of the world. So that cost
imposition now is changing and we see
missile attacks now becoming more
prevalent on, you know, infrastructure
in the Persian Gulf uh and we're seeing
it more and more taking place and that's
that cost imposition that they're now
starting to put to make it so painful
that the US, the Israelis, and the world
community want to get out of the
situation.
>> General, we do have the United States
sending a second amphibious assault ship
to the Middle East. Can you walk us
through what these highly trained
Marines could potentially be used for in
the region?
>> Sure. I I think as you look at the
combatant commander, Admiral Cooper, in
the Central Command,
uh he wants to have as many capabilities
in his hands as he can use as possible.
As as the planning takes place, we see
what we call branches and sequels. As
things start to change on the
battlefield, uh then different branches
and plans come into play. Having a a a
Marine amphibious group with a Navy
amphibious ready group with it, Marine
amphibious unit um that ARG/MEU
capability brings it's a it's a toolbox
in its own, which adds to the toolbox
that he has. And it brings many
capabilities
um that comes to bear. It's got a
reinforced infantry battalion with
plenty of uh fires capability or or
attack capabilities. Uh it has a full
range of aviation assets from attack
helos, uh heavy transport helos with the
CH-53s.
Uh it's got um the MV-22s with our
tiltrotor assault support aircraft that
can go out long ranges and and do raid
type missions or insert missions. And
then it's got F-35s on board, too, that
can provide the close air support that
the uh the the the team would need. But
in this case, they'd be inserting
themselves into a very large joint
operation where there's many
capabilities that the CENTCOM commander
has to be able to fit this tool uh into
his toolbox and be able to use it as he
sees fit. So, some of the missions you
could see you talked about Karg Island,
there could be raids there. Uh going
into the uh if there were uh any
indications that we'd go into the
nuclear sites
uh to try to hold those. We've got very
highly trained special operations forces
that can do those missions, but you'd
probably need a conventional force to go
in that the uh the Marine expeditionary
unit can provide to go in and provide
some of that security along with many of
the joint assets that would be on top of
that providing air superiority.
>> How vulnerable will they be though in a
narrow corridor?
>> I I think what you're seeing right now
is why the US Navy is not operating
inside the straits because those
conditions have not been set by the
joint force
to be able [clears throat] to bring Navy
ships in there yet. The Navy would
rather stand off than stand inside there
where they're at much more risk. So the
threats to the Navy
both from drones, missiles, and fast
attack craft has to be taken down more
before you start start to see them
entering. So this is a phased campaign
based on conditions and what we've seen
recently start to really play out is as
the air security has been gained, the US
has now brought in capabilities like the
A-10 aircraft which you saw that
operated at very low air altitude. It
can see targets and take out small
targets like the fast attack boats or
where they've got missile sites hidden
along with these attack aircraft that
are in. So they're bringing much more
capabilities in there that are for that
type of mission the set the conditions
for Navy aircraft to come in.
>> General, always appreciate your time,
sir, for framing things in the Middle
East. General Robert Welsh of Academy
Securities. Up next on the program,
Stephen Schork of the Schork Group with
Brent crude holding on to triple digits.
Stocks down across the board this
morning on the S&P 500 negative by 0.7
on the Nasdaq down by 0.9. On the
Russell small caps down by more than one
full percentage point. In the bond
market, this is where things got really
interesting yesterday. Flatter curves
this morning, flatter again led by a
sell-off at the front end of the curve.
That's what they call a bear flattener.
The two-year yield this morning up by
nine basis points, 388. For a moment
yesterday, a really interesting moment
where we really started [music] to
reprice the inflation story, the rate
story at the front end of the curve.
Two-year yields much higher and really
started to reprice growth lower at the
longer end of the curve. Yields down at
the long end of the curve. So, up at the
front, down at the long end. That
competing story, toxic for risk assets,
and lots of that is happening off the
back of this. Turn to crude. WTI and
Brent. WTI is actually down on the week,
believe it or not. WTI crude this
morning up by about a third of 1%. It's
the breakout in Brent image that we keep
on seeing. Brent crude 110.20 and up
another 1%. We saw this immediately
immediately yesterday and in the
previous day. When [music] you start
hitting energy facilities, this means
that long-term impact is going to be
more sustained. And [music] we heard
that already from the Qatari energy CEO.
We're talking about rebuilding of 3 to 5
years [music] and potentially long-term
gas contracts, these liquefied natural
gas contracts. Think India, China, the
European Union, which no longer get gets
a bulk of their natural gas anymore from
Europe. The tension is going to be force
majeures. And that is why there's an
incredibly amount of concern. You're
hearing that from the Israeli Prime
Minister, [music] especially from the
President of the United States. They do
know they no longer want to be energy
facilities as a target. The problem is
[music] the Iranians are saying, "For
us, these are still a target." It's
crude. It's energy product. It's gas
prices as well. It ignites in a big move
at the front end of the yield curve. So,
two-year yields stateside up by about 50
basis points since this war started.
That's just 3 weeks, 15 days of trading,
50 basis points higher. In the UK, that
number is twice that. That number is
almost 100 basis points higher at the
front end of the curve as they respond
not by taking out easing. You've got a
market responding in the UK pricing in
rate hikes. And Europe doing the same
thing, three of them fully priced at the
ECB for the year ahead. Some major moves
out there in the bond market so far this
week. Let's get you some single names,
some morning movers. Three hours away
from the opening bell. Yuhaira Hasma,
hey Yuhaira.
>> Hi John, we start with earnings out of
FedEx. Shares are rising nearly 9% in
the pre-market after the company raised
its full-year profit outlook in a sign
that its network overhaul is starting to
gain traction. Man- management saying
that demand it's holding steady into
March even with the war and as that
conflict pushes oil higher, we are
getting some insights into how FedEx is
navigating it. FedEx is passing on some
of those costs via higher fuel
surcharges helping to cushion its
margins. And as the war continues and we
continue to see that theme of higher
defense spending playing out, we are
seeing shares of Planet Labs soaring
nearly
15% in the pre-market. The company
reporting results that showed strong
demand for its satellite [music]
imaging products as governments ramp up
their spending on intelligence and
surveillance. And we end on a big mover
to the downside and that is Super Micro
Computer. Shares are falling at 22% in
the pre-market on a stunning indictment.
US prosecutors charging a co-founder of
the company in what they're calling
[music]
the largest AI chip smuggling case to
date accusing that person of smuggling
Nvidia-powered servers to China.
Prosecutors say 2 and 1/2 billion
dollars in shipments were involved much
of that being rushed out ahead of
tighter export controls,
>> John.
>> Yuhaira, thank you. Wild story coming
out of that company. These are
individuals with significant amounts of
wealth and yet they're still engaged in
that kind of activity.
>> And what's interesting is the US
government has been trying to figure out
how has China been able [music] to get
access to some of these high advanced
semiconductor chips? Well, here it is.
>> Those allegations crazy. Some of the
pictures involved in those allegations
pretty crazy as well. On the radar this
morning, the US and Israel pledging to
avoid targeting key energy sites in Iran
after strikes on the country's largest
field up end global markets. Israel
saying it will aid US efforts to reopen
the Strait of Hormuz helping drive crude
prices lower. Elsewhere, Iran striking
an oil refinery in Kuwait for the second
consecutive day. Drone attacks on the
plant forcing the shutdown of central
units. Kuwaiti oil production cut in
half since the war of start of the war
nearly 4 weeks ago. The ECB weighing a
potential rate hike as soon as next
month if price pressures from the Iran
war continue to build. The governing
council member Joachim Nagel telling us
here at Bloomberg the future policy
decisions will depend on how the
conflict plays out.
>> Seriously, there's some current concern
right now in the ECB even though you did
see
Christine Lagarde talk about the fact
that they think they're starting from a
better base probably reflecting on what
happened to Europe with Russia's
invasion of Ukraine and the energy
spike. It does seem like they are much
more concerned about what this prolonged
conflict could mean. But the issue that
happened over the past 48 hours is we
realized that it's not just that we
cannot move the product. It's that the
product is actually now getting hit.
>> Let's get to those updates on the energy
market. The White House taking an oil
and gas export ban off the table as a
way to bring down energy prices after
the Vice President J.D. Vance met with
oil executives. Stephen Schork of the
Schork Group writing the Brent WTI
spread will not narrow until one of two
things happens. Hormuz fully reopens or
WTI stops pricing in diplomatic
optionality that never materializes.
Neither is imminent. Stephen joins us
now for more.
>> Stephen, welcome to the program. I want
to get to your line in your research.
The Brent WTI spread says everything
diplomacy won't. Stephen, just build on
that.
>> Yeah, absolutely. Thank you. So, the
Brent market is now the benchmark for
the seaborne trade in oil and this is
the market that is pricing the conflict,
is pricing the war, is pricing the
shortages that we are seeing. The WTI
market prices optionality, prices
optimism. It's a landlocked contract.
It's a futures contract and like every
futures contract it derives its value
from the physical asset. The physical
asset in WTI is landlocked in the
Oklahoma, a different type of crude oil.
Brent is a
a similar crude oil but priced in the
Atlantic basin barrels and it's the
benchmark for the seaborne trade. So
every time we see a dovish headline the
war might be ending or there's an
off-ramp. That optimism gets priced into
the Brent the WTI contract and that is
the hope contract. The Brent market is
the real market that is pricing the real
events going on and that blowout in the
spread that we've seen over the past
week week and a half tells you that this
war is far from over because we are
seeing a tremendous bid in Brent over
that WTI contract.
>> Steve, I want to pick up on your point
about what the WTI is pricing in about
policy the US government could do. So
yesterday Secretary Wright tweeted that
there is going to be no export ban but
then I had a bunch of calls from people
saying no export ban for now. Do you
think this something the US will keep in
their back pocket in case prices
continue to rise?
>> Uh absolutely now let's be clear an
export ban would be catastrophic for US
oil production because all it would do
is pent up more supply here in the
United States of oil we don't
necessarily use so we don't have a use
for it so we're not going to burn it so
inventories will just build and as those
inventories build there's no place for
new production to go so ultimately it's
a catastrophic move for production and
it
I think it appears that the White House
got that message. But you never know it
does make a nice headline so we could
potentially see it's a political tool
it's not an economic tool so certainly
there is that potential and clearly with
the way the Brent market has gone we've
gone from a $5 premium Brent over WTI at
the start of this week to now it's
upwards of 13 to $14 so we've tripled
that premium so clearly the market is
skeptical that an export ban is not off
of the table.
>> Stephen, do you even think Brent right
now is pricing in really what is going
on in the region? When you look at Oman
futures, I think yesterday they blew
past $170 a barrel. That's more tied to
the physical barrels right now that are
moving in the Gulf. So, is Brent even
accurate?
>> It's an excellent uh question and um you
know, I'm reticent to say it's not
because then I would say, "Oh, the
market is wrong." But, to your point, we
have a bifurcated market. So, the Brent
market is still an Atlantic basin
market. That's where it's derived from.
To your point that Oman and the Dubai
futures contracts, which are linked more
towards the Asian markets, that is
really reflective of the shortage. So,
what the Brent Dubai or the Brent Oman
uh Brent steep discount uh to those
markets is telling you is that we're
looking at an Atlantic basin that is
well supplied with oil. The problem is
in Asia where all that oil still
blockaded up in the Strait of Hormuz,
those are. So, your refineries from
India over through Japan up through
South Korea are bidding for that oil and
hence why we're getting such a huge uh
disconnect between the two markets. So,
to answer your question, Brent it Brent
is certainly disconnected. It's more
connected, as we've said, relative to
WTI. But, actually, where the shortage
is, where the physical shortage is uh
represented in the Oman and Dubai
markets, clearly uh again, that is an
indicator that this war is far from
being resolved in any sort of positive
manner.
>> And Stephen, that's the reality for
Asian importers, buyers of that crude,
of that physical asset. Do you think
this market's taking too much comfort
from the futures curve?
>> Uh it's really interesting and where
we're really seeing the the blowout, and
to answer your question, I think the
market is rather relaxed, is
if we look at the Brent Dubai market,
for instance, if we believe in market
theory or in that curve, then we're
looking at Brent trading at a $30, $40
discount to Dubai, a $60, $70 discount
to Oman. So, the question is
uh when does or does the market catch
up? So, that well we'll we'll take the
Dubai market right now. We're trading at
about a $35 discount, Brent below Dubai.
That's not supposed to happen. Dubai is
an inferior quality oil. It trades at a
discount to Brent, but that's not the
case, but we know why. But we go 2
months out, the Brent premium, and we
said Brent normally trades at premium to
uh Dubai, is now trading at a life of
contract high of nearly $8,000 barrel.
So, what the market, at least what the
curve is telling us, is that yeah,
there's a real problem. There's a
stranded um barrels in the Strait of
Hormuz. Uh they're not going out.
Therefore, Dubai trades at a massive
premium to Brent. Going out 2 months,
that premium reverses now to a
significant discount. So, the market, if
you believe in term structure or in the
forward curve of pricing theory, is
telling us, yeah, we've got a real
problem in the spot market. By the time
we roll into summer, there's going to be
some sort of exit in this war. Remains
to be seen. Uh we're not seeing it in
the product markets, for instance. So,
another question now is the diesel
market,
the crack spread or the the margin
between diesel prices and oil prices in
the Gulf Coast is almost $70 a barrel.
So, that So, one of two things are going
to happen. Oil, WTI is going to have to
catch catch up to where product prices
are, or product prices are going to
crash because of demand destruction, and
now we're talking about significant
economic contraction. So, but the here
and the now is that the spread is
telling us significant shortage in the
spot market prompt month, but going out
2 months, out we should start to see
some sort of resolution. At least that's
how the market or that's what the
forward curve is suggesting to the
globe.
>> Stephen, it's good to see you. It's good
to get your perspective. Thank you, sir.
Stephen Schilk there the Schork Group on
energy, on the price of crude and crude
product. Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yohai has more. Hey,
Yohai.
>> Hi, John.
The Trump administration is considering
plans to occupy occupy or blockade
Iran's Kharg Island. Axios reporting the
operation would be used to pressure Iran
to reopen the Strait of Hormuz. It would
only be launched after the US military
further degrades to Iran's military. The
Pentagon is considering sending more
troops to the region with three marine
units already on their way.
President Donald Trump and top Justice
Department officials supporting a new
bid to investigate Fed Chair Jay Powell.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg the
president had been open to the idea of
dropping the probe until last Friday
when a judge rejected subpoenas. The
investigation is related to the Fed's
two and a half billion dollar renovation
of its headquarters.
And the ECB may need to raise rates as
soon as next month. Governing Council
member Joaquin Almunia telling Bloomberg
the Central Bank's future decisions will
depend on the developments of the war in
Iran and its impact on medium-term
inflation. Saying more restrictive
monetary policy would probably be
necessary if inflation expectations
rise.
That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Yohai, thank [music] you. More from
Yohai in about 30 minutes time. Up next
on the program, the Iran war of feeding
inflation risk.
>> There's so much uncertainty associated
with what's going on in the Middle
[music] East. I'm worried about the fact
that we haven't fully integrated what
happens to demand.
>> Cassie Barrow of JP Morgan Asset
Management joins us next live from New
York City. This is Bloomberg.
>> Heading into the weekend with stocks
lower down by 0.5 on the S&P and the
Nasdaq down by 0.7. That's the stock
story. Here's the bond market picture.
Two-year yields at the front end of the
curve once again
pricing out easing. A price again maybe,
which seems unthinkable. [music]
The prospect of rate hikes even come up.
We'll get into that in just a moment.
We're up eight basis points at the front
end of the US curve three 87. In Europe,
that's where the rate hike story feels
much more real. In Europe right now, the
ECB is pricing in [music] three hikes or
rather traders are pricing in three
hikes from the ECB. In the UK, another
[music] double-digit move at the front
end of the curve. A 100 basis point
repricing on two-year yields in the UK,
which is just wild. 452 right now on UK
yields. Let's turn to the crude market.
Energy shaping up as follows. Brent and
WTI. Brent crude around 110, WTI 95.
That's the front end of the futures
curve. That's what we're looking at
here. It's important to recognize that
>> [music]
>> because what we're seeing in the
physical market
is $50 higher in some cases.
>> higher when it comes [music] to the
futures, well what is trading in terms
of Oman and Dubai, those actual physical
barrels. But as we just heard from
Stephen Schork, all those barrels are
going to Asia. That's where really the
front line of the energy shock is right
now. But the differential [music]
is just astonishing. And then you take
in what the US has as a net exporter,
WTI still remains under $100 a barrel.
That is a key threshold for this White
House.
>> Brent crude this morning around 110, WTI
around 96. Underscoring this morning,
[music]
the Iran war feeding inflation risk.
>> A prolonged war in the Middle East could
lead to a larger and longer-lasting
upward shift in energy prices.
>> Higher energy prices will push up
overall inflation, but it is too soon to
know the scope and duration of the
potential effects on the economy.
[music]
>> Well, the next time we meet, a lot will
have happened and I can't predict what I
can't possibly none of us can predict
what it will be. It is a very volatile
situation.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Global central banks seeing greater
inflation with risk as the war in Iran
drags on. Kelsey Barrow of JP Morgan
Asset Management writing technical
factors may pose short-term headwinds
for bond investors due to the
deleveraging of popular macro trades.
But, if last year is any guide, the next
move is still more likely to be a cut.
Kelsey joins us now for more. Kelsey,
good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> into some of the jargon. This market was
really positioning for steepness and now
all of a sudden the curve's flattened. A
lot of those trades had to come off. So,
let's go through the individual
components of the curve and start with
the very front end. The two years really
interesting to me because now it's
trading above the upper end of the range
for the Federal Reserve. That's odd when
the market isn't really anticipating
rate hikes anytime soon. What do you
make of what we're seeing at the moment?
>> Yeah, so
>> [clears throat]
>> when I look at the market, the bond
market more broadly, what I'm doing is
I'm essentially categorizing where are
the areas where there's been value
created as a result of the energy shock
and where has there been a lack of value
created and there's still maybe more
repricing that needs to happen. And I
would say the areas where a tremendous
amount of value has been created in the
bond market is in the front end of
developed market curves, particularly
the US, uh the UK, and uh Europe. Also,
some EM uh rates markets. Uh I think
it's very more country specific, but
even there you've seen this pattern
of rate cuts that were priced in that
are now being recalculated to rate
hikes. And I do think it is a nuanced
story for the Fed where I did write that
we still think the the next move is a
cut versus the BOE and the ECB where
there is more of a credible risk that
they hike, but second-order impacts are
important. Hiking into a supply shock
also increases the probability that
those hikes are not sustainable if that
inflation is only supply-led and and is
not demand-led that they need to reverse
those hikes
in in subsequent time periods because
it's not all about energy and the higher
inflation impact, but there's also a
negative growth impact associated with
higher energy prices and what the market
has been focused on, particularly the
front end of the rates market, is really
exclusively that higher inflation
impact.
>> Super super volatile. So, we've priced
out easing of the Fed. We've priced in
hikes at the Bank of England, three
hikes so far at the ECB. The value
creation story, the relative picture
right now, is there an opportunity
already at the front end of the UK curve
despite the volatility? An opportunity
already at the front end of the European
curve?
>> I think that you're getting to the point
where there is an opportunity because if
you look at what's priced in, it's now
even in excess of what I think could be
a reasonable baseline in terms of rate
hikes if oil stays above 100 for a
period of time. So, what the BOE and the
ECB seem to have done is essentially
given the market a playbook for if
nothing improves, which may not be what
happens. I mean, we may see a
de-escalation at some point that allows
energy prices to come down. But, if
nothing improves and actually energy
continues to go up, here's what we think
we may need to do to keep inflation
expectations well anchored. I think even
under a scenario where they do have to
hike one or two times, the market is
priced in excess of that. And so, the
valuations there, I think are getting
particularly attractive. And I would say
in the US, you know, why are they being
dragged along? I mean, these markets are
very global in nature and so the the US
market is not immune, but what I will
say when I look at the long end of the
curve, you know, 10s at 4:30, you know,
this is still the pre-existing range
that we were trading in prior to the to
the conflict in Iran and I look at
things like five-year five-year
inflation expectations, which are
actually stable if not slightly lower on
the day. And what you saw with the move
yesterday was a 20 basis point range for
twos, but where we ended up actually
reminded me a little bit of a a little
bit of a risk growing risk of a hawkish
policy error.
>> Yeah.
>> Which is you had higher front-end yields
and you had lower long-end yields and
you had lower long-term inflation
expectations. I get it. Central banks,
they want to get ahead of this. They
don't want to make the mistakes of 2022.
But we also know they've made other
mistakes where in prior to 2022 where
they responded to a supply shock in oil
that was not accompanied by any any
robust demand. I think you really need
to take into context the fact that where
were these economies prior to the shock?
The BOE saw thought the labor market was
very weak and they were about to cut. In
the in the Fed's orbit, we were seeing a
cyclical inflation come down. Job growth
was essentially zero. They were looking
to gradually normalize. That is a very
different world from where we were in
2022 when you had double-digit nominal
GDP growth, you had negative real policy
rates and there was a clear reason why
central banks across the globe had to
endeavor on aggressive hiking cycles.
>> with your framework. That's where we've
created value.
Where haven't we created value in fixed
income?
>> Well, credit spreads have moved wider,
but I think they could continue to move
wider and be under pressure in a
scenario where oil stays very elevated.
And so, one of the things that we've
been doing, we had our investment
quarterly yesterday, our senior
investors come together for all across
the globe. The timing was was great,
obviously with everything going on, and
we stressed, for example, investment
grade corporates in a number of
different oil oil scenarios. And in a
scenario where we stay around here, or
maybe we see that $150 a barrel oil,
which we're already seeing in in other
parts of the oil market in Dubai,
that could be a situation where
corporate earnings will get hurt. And
it's actually a more broad-based impact
to corporate earnings than the tariff
shock.
And in that case, there are a lot of
parts of the market that are still very,
very tight. For example, in the European
investment grade market, your your banks
and the lower end of the capital stack
part of the banks, they're still pricing
in very snug valuations, not consistent
with a situation where revenues and
earnings turn negative because of a
prolonged energy shock.
>> Kelsey smart, really, really smart
stuff. Kelsey Berro at BofA JP Morgan
Asset Management. The curious case of
risk assets right now, both credit, but
also equities. We've gone back and forth
on this now for 3 weeks.
It's an energy shock, there's becoming a
rate shock, and now you're starting to
understand, trying to get your hands
around, wrestling with the idea that it
becomes a growth shock as well.
>> And that really depends on how long
these disruptions are and how prolonged
this conflict is. The Wall Street
Journal has a piece this morning citing
Saudi energy officials. You know, they
never want to say what kind of price
they think or price they're targeting,
but they think if this conflict
continues to last to the end of April,
you're looking at $180
on Brent, not the physical cargos, on
Brent crude. [music]
>> S&P 500 futures this morning negative by
0.5. In the next hour, we'll catch up
with Jim Bianco of Bianco Research,
Michael Zezas of Morgan Stanley, Paul
Sankey of Sankey Research, and Terry
Wiseman of Macquarie. The second hour
just around the corner.
>> We have an economy that faces growth as
well as inflation risks.
>> There are short-term impacts, but there
are also longer-term impacts that these
central bankers have to consider.
>> You can't hit the global economy with a
shock of that magnitude and not expect
bad things to happen.
>> No doubt. [music] I think you are going
to see uncertainty start to weigh on
corporate confidence.
>> The risk of recession is higher than the
markets believe.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
>> [music]
>> and Anne Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now,
and your scores, the price action looks
like this. [music] Futures down again.
We're negative 0.5 and heading towards a
fourth consecutive week of losses, the
longest such streak in more than [music]
12 months on the S&P 500. In the bond
market, yields shaping up as follows.
Twos at the front end of the curve since
this war started, up 50 basis points
stateside, up another rate this morning,
386.83. [music]
And in the commodity market at the
moment, Brent crude since this war
started, up 50%. Physical barrels up a
ton more [music] than that. 109.41 on
Brent, WTI 95.43.
>> The price keeps going when it comes to
physical barrels, these barrels that are
basically stuck, [music] and now we have
a bigger problem. And Halima Croft
talked about we went from bad to worse
in terms of the situation in the Middle
East because energy infrastructure has
been hit, and you're hearing from the
heads of these companies like the Qatar
Energy CEO, Saad Al Kaabi, talking about
force majeures are going to have to
happen. They're not going to be able to
fulfill long-term LNG contracts, which
is why you see officials at the ECB
incredibly concerned about inflation cuz
it's going to hit them pretty
immediately. It's looking very dire for
some of these economies. And right now,
Jonathan, although you do see [music]
Benjamin Netanyahu and the president
almost looked calculated, coordinated in
their effects in trying to tamp down
what's going on, saying energy
facilities will be no longer targets.
That's not happening for the Iranians.
>> Let's just focus on energy
movement and production. For a long time
through this war, 3 weeks of it feels
much longer.
For a long time through this war, we
were focused on the movement of energy,
[music] the straightest form of us. Is
it temporary? How long does it last?
Now we have to think about the long-term
production impact. [music] And that was
the critical turning point of the
conversation yesterday around Qatar and
the strike on LNG and LNG capacity.
And I think the most important line of
the reporting, and it came from Reuters
yesterday, was how long it's going to
take to repair the damage that was done.
>> [music]
>> And it wasn't 12 months.
It wasn't in months. It was 3 to 5
years.
That changes the conversation. And then
all of a sudden the market started to
turn. And it was just that moment
yesterday for a few hours where we
started to really consider the duration
impact, how long this was going to last,
and the damage it would do to growth
over a longer period of time.
>> We are talking about years for these
facilities to get up, back up, and
operational to where they are today. And
we're just talking about one example in
Qatar. [music] We do know that a
refinery in Saudi Arabia was hit
yesterday. Overnight, this morning on
the East Coast, we had Kuwait had a
facility hit as well. So, they are
picking apart pockets as well as the
UAE, picking apart pockets across the
Gulf in terms of what the Iranians are
willing to hit. And they say they are
not going to back down.
>> And the longer it goes on, the more
governments need to think about
offsetting some of the pain,
particularly [music]
over in places like Europe. Do they have
the fiscal space to respond? In the UK,
a little bit earlier, big headline
crossing the Bloomberg. The highest
yield we've seen on a 10-year maturity
[music] going back to 2008. Forget the
Liz Truss stuff. We've had massive
[music] moves this month alone at the
front end of the curve by 100 basis
points on twos. You're seeing it at the
longer end of the curve as well. Why? I
think it's a question about fiscal space
[music] here. Particularly not just for
the UK, but for the Europeans. Spain
with this headline months ago. They're
going to cut fuel and electricity taxes
in an economic relief package. How many
more such packages will we see if this
continues?
>> A ton. And I think you can take the
context of Russia's invasion of Ukraine
and what Europe did. They learned a lot
from that and they realized they need to
move expeditiously [music]
when it comes to energy prices. And we
already know energy prices in Europe are
so much higher. They are importers of it
>> [music]
>> and also they tax it heavily. You're
going to see a lot more economies
probably say, "We're going to have to
give the consumer a bit of a break
[music] here."
>> So once the action's elsewhere, crude's
actually pretty stable at the front end
of the futures curve. Brent crude 109,
WTI down at 95. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Jim Bianco of Bianco
Research [music] as the US and Israel
attempt to de-escalate. Michael Caesars
of Morgan Stanley as the White House
rolls out an export ban. And Terry
Wiseman of Macquarie as bond markets
feel the shock. We begin this hour with
stocks extended declines as crude
continues to climb. Jim Bianco of Bianco
Research writes in the West
underestimated drone warfare, failed to
secure Hormuz, and is now facing an
oil-driven inflation shock. Jim Bianco
joins us now for more. Jim, welcome to
the program. I keep talking about this.
The numbers and prices we quote at the
front end of the futures curve. Do you
think that's masking
the disruption that's taking place
elsewhere?
>> Oh, yeah, I think it is. And I think the
biggest thing about that is that the oil
market is bifurcated into three
different markets. The Middle East crude
oil that goes to Asia is now trading at
160 or 170 dollars.
The oil that basically goes to Europe is
trading at around $115 and the oil that
goes to United States still trading
around $95. We've never seen the market
break up this much into three distinct
markets like it has before. Usually
those spreads are a couple of dollars
based on the quality and the
transportation costs of the crude oil,
but it's never been $80 like we've seen
now.
>> The energy secretary is speaking at the
moment, Jim. I'm going to break in with
these headlines and just get Amrita's
thoughts on things.
This is what energy secretary Rice has
got to say about sanctioning Iranian
crude. It would be absorbed in 30 to 45
days and additional Iranian oil would
help Asian customers. I just want you to
think about what we've heard from the
Treasury Secretary at the start of this
year. The Treasury Secretary was talking
about the war in Ukraine and the
Europeans buying Russian energy still
and financing the war against
themselves.
What is this move from the US side?
Unsanctioning Iranian barrels at a time
when they're at war with Iran.
>> Well, sounds exactly like what Brussels
was doing with Moscow and what it comes
to still importing Russian gas.
President Trump in his first term and
his second term has been very direct
when it comes to the policy proposals
they want on the regime. Maximum
pressure.
Now they're potentially saying, well,
there is Iranian oil that is out there
on the sea. We're going to unsanction it
potentially. They're just talking now.
They're saying that this would be
absorbed in 30 to 45 days. This means
not all of it would just go illegally to
China. Other Asia buyers could
potentially buy some of this crude, but
it's giving the regime money
at a time when they are trying to combat
this regime and topple it. And if you're
selling this crude legally, how much
more money is Tehran able to bring in
then from these barrels?
>> Jim Bianco Bianco Research still
alongside us. Jim, forgive me for that.
Just wanted to jump in and break down
some of those headlines. It's starting
to feel a little bit desperate. I think
they understand that these markets are
getting tighter. Jim, I keep going
through this framework that we've priced
in the shock to energy prices, starting
to do it into interest rates. Where are
we in the process of repricing growth?
>> I think we're in the process of
repricing it lower, but we have to
consider where should interest rates be?
They should basically approximate
nominal GDP expectations. That's a fancy
way of saying growth plus inflation. And
what I think you're seeing out of the
interest rate market, is particularly
the short end of the yield curve, is
we're going to get more inflation than
we're going to get a reduction in
growth. And nominal GDP is going to go
up, and that means that the appropriate
response for interest rates is going to
go higher, and the appropriate response
from central banks might be to hike
rates.
This is the early '80s. What did we do
when we had recessions in the early '80s
because they were driven by high
inflation? We raised interest rates, and
this is what we could wind up seeing
now. What would be a giant mistake
is to be cutting interest rates into
this. We have a deficit of oil right
now. Jeff Curry was on with you the
other day, did a great job of explaining
it. We need 10 million barrels of oil to
be consumed less. Somebody not has to
buy it. If we're going to start cutting
taxes and cutting interest rates to
subsidize people to continue to buy
higher prices, they're just going to
keep going up and up until 10 million
barrels are not bought anymore. So,
we're just going to keep driving prices
higher. So, I don't think that interest
rate cuts is going to be appropriate
until this war is over and we can assess
the damage.
>> If we're missing 10 to 15 million
barrels per day, as you say, prices will
need to rise. At what point do they rise
and it starts to hit demand production?
>> I think it's starting right now,
especially out of Europe, excuse me, out
of Asia because of the $170 price you're
getting there. We're already hearing
that some of the countries in Asia are
starting to ration oil because they
don't have enough. Now, in the United
States, we're but we're benefiting from
we are independent in our oil. We
produce enough oil, so we won't ever
have to ration, but we're still going to
be subject to the prices of the world
market. We're going to pay a lot for it,
but you're always going to be able to go
to the gas station and it's always going
to have gas available for you.
>> Right, but right now if you are an
American and you go to the gas station
on average we're looking at $3.91. So
we're about to hit $4 a gallon of
gasoline. That psychologically Jim is
going to be difficult for the American
consumer. At what point do you think
gasoline prices will be rising enough
where it starts to hit corporate profits
and other parts of the economy?
>> I think it's there already and it will
start to do that. I think the only
question is how long does it last? And
the answer to that is uh when does the
oil start flowing? Remember that oil in
trade is, you know, everybody loves
medical metaphors, it's the circulatory
system of the global uh of of global
GDP. It's got a blockage right now and
in a very important artery. That
blockage has to open. As soon as it
opens and the oil starts flowing, then
we can assess how long it's going to be.
If it's $3.91
a barrel a gallon or that range for a
couple of weeks, that's not going to be
really debilitating. If it it stays
there for a month or two or three, then
it's a bigger problem.
>> Jim, you said it's a mistake to cut
rates. I don't see a sign of interest
rate cuts anytime soon. Do you think it
would be a mistake to hike interest
rates in places like the UK, places like
Europe?
>> It might not be at this point because if
they don't hike rates, again, that would
actually act as a subsidy again because
what's happening in technical terms is
their neutral rate is going up quite a
bit. And if they don't follow the
neutral rate up, then they're going to
wind up with leaving rates where they
are being too easy in terms of where the
policy rate turns. So they might have to
start following those neutral rates
higher. And in we're starting to see
that in the United States. Just a couple
of weeks ago we were pricing hikes
across the board and now we're starting
to price in uh excuse me, we're cutting
cuts across the board. Now we're
starting to price in small hikes, way
less than 50% but we're above zero for
the first time in a couple of years in
terms of the where we can say think Fed
policy is going to go and that it is now
leaning towards hikes more than cuts.
>> Jim, it's good to see you as always,
buddy. Thanks for breaking it down. Jim
Bianco there at Bianco Research on the
change the rate pricing we've seen and
it's been aggressive. It's been fast.
It's happened really, really quickly at
the front end of the UK curve and across
Europe, too. Deutsche Bank mentioned
this earlier now expecting two hikes
from the ECB over the next year and
Joachim Nagel of the Bundesbank, the
German Central Bank president out this
morning essentially leaning into the
idea they can move pretty soon.
>> Basically, they're saying they can maybe
or he's saying there's capacity maybe to
move next month. This means that the
ECB, the European Union, they realize
that they need to move quicker
potentially because Jim is right, after
Asia, the next point that's going to get
hit with the energy shocked is Europe
and to your point earlier, Spain's
already seeing it today. They're trying
to get rid of the taxes when it comes to
gasoline because you know why? For
consumers, these levels are just way too
high.
>> Futures stay aside, largely insulated
relatively speaking to what's happening
elsewhere. Equity futures right now in
the S&P down by just a third of 1%.
Let's give you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Yohara has more.
Hey, Yohara.
>> Hi, John.
The Trump administration is considering
plans to occupy or blockade Iran's Kharg
Island. Axios reporting the operation
would [music] be used to pressure Iran
to reopen the Straits of Hormuz. It
would only be launched after the US
military further degrades Tehran's
military. The Pentagon is considering
sending more troops to the region with
three Marine units already [music] on
their way.
Meanwhile, Iran is stepping up its
attacks on energy sites on neighboring
Gulf states after Israel bombed its
primary offshore natural gas field. Iran
striking an oil refinery in Kuwait
[music] for the second straight day,
forcing the plant to shut down some of
its units. Brent has surged more than
40% since the war started nearly 4 weeks
ago.
And Saudi Arabian oil officials [music]
projecting oil prices could top $180 a
barrel if the Strait of Hormuz remains
blocked for another month. The Wall
Street Journal reporting a prolonged war
would [music] bring huge Saudi profits,
but could trigger a recession.
>> The Bloomberg Brief, John.
>> Yohai, thank you. Appreciate the update.
More from Yohai in about 15 minutes
time. Up next on the [music] program,
downplaying crude concerns.
>> I thought it would be worse, much worse
actually. I thought there was a chance
it could be much worse. It's not bad and
it's going to be over with pretty soon.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Michael
Zezas of Morgan Stanley [music] live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
Stocks are down this morning by 0.4%
heading into the weekend and heading
towards another weekly decline on the
S&P 500. On the Nasdaq, we're down by
0.5. In the commodity market, a quick
update for you. WTI [music] on the week
is actually lower on the session, on the
day, and on the week so far. WTI 95.10.
Brent crude is not lower on the week.
That's at 108.80, [music] coming very
close again to touching 120 in
yesterday's session.
>> I know, and you've been right to point
out that spread between Brent and WTI.
At one point yesterday, I believe it did
touch $20. And that just goes to show
how much the US is really insulated for
what's going on in the region from
[music] an energy perspective cuz we are
and exporter.
>> There's speculation also that there
might be an export ban
>> [music]
>> led to the widening of that spread, I
think. And there was some obvious
pushback on the record yesterday that
that's not happening.
>> Right, you had the biggest oil
executives in the world. You're talking
about Exxon and Chevron sitting down
with the Vice President of the United
States, Secretary [music] Wright,
Secretary Burgham, and probably telling
them this could have adverse effects.
It's not exactly the silver bullet idea
you want to think of even though maybe
politically it could [music] be a nice
statement for the American people.
>> WTI 95, Brent crude one away on
Savannah's this morning downplaying
crude concerns.
>> I thought it would be worse, much worse
actually. I thought there was a chance
it could be much worse. It's not bad and
it's going to be over with pretty soon.
You could end this things in 2 seconds
if you wanted to, but but uh
we are we are being very judicious.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
White House looking to ease energy
concerns floating plans to lift
sanctions on some Iranian crude and
ruling out an export ban. Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall has more. Hey, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, this
White House is looking for viable
options as it seems that the risk of
lasting damage to energy supply and
infrastructure in the Middle East is
only increasing at this point. Though
the Treasury secretary floating that we
could see a lifting or easing in
sanctions on Iranian crude would reverse
what is years of US policy. Though
officials have argued that this could
bring about 140 million barrels
currently at sea up to a market price of
about 2 weeks of supply for allies to
buy after a similar move was taken
against Russian barrels at sea earlier
this month. That was part of an array of
options that the administration decided
to take in a bid to try to lower prices
including as you know waving the Jones
Act, invoking the Defense Production Act
just for offshore drilling. Though there
are concerns about the timing and the
impact that project will have. And of
course tapping the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve to the tune of about 172 million
barrels over the next 4 months. The
Treasury Secretary suggesting we could
see another tapping of the SPR, and we
know other options floated including
asking Congress for a federal gas tax
holiday and potentially waivers to get
higher content ethanol gasoline to the
market. Though, of course, the number
one thing this White House wants to see
is a securing of the Strait of Hormuz as
President Trump continues his criticism
of allies for not meeting his demand of
naval escorts in the waterway. John, at
this point, as you mentioned, President
Trump and you heard is is really
downplaying what has been the recent
spike in oil prices, but still we know
it's becoming a political issue as we
head into the midterms. Our analysts at
Bloomberg Economics say that the data
shows a very strong relationship between
higher gas prices at the pump and lower
presidential approval ratings.
>> Todd Canter with the lights system,
Washington, D.C., outside of the White
House. Todd, I thank you. You did get
the impression that the administration
was worried about the spiraling out of
control just yesterday. You also got the
impression that Bibi Netanyahu got a
phone call from the White House. No
inside line on that whatsoever, but just
the impression that he got a phone call
from the White House to get out there
and deny that there was any U.S.
involvement or cooperation around the
strikes on that Iranian gas field, and
that it won't be happening again.
>> Absolutely. It almost felt coordinated
cuz the president spoke about it and
he's like, "Sometimes, you know, we know
what they're doing and behind them, and
sometimes they sort of go off on their
own." President was almost saying that
they could be a little bit rogue. But,
the reporting is
at Bloomberg and a number of other
sources that the U.S. was aware that
Israel was going to go strike South
Pars, that huge energy land in in Iran
that they share with Qatar. But, Bibi
Netanyahu came out and said, "Nope, not
true." So, it did feel like he maybe got
a phone call from the Oval.
>> An attempt to try and de-escalate this
just a bit. Michael Zezas of Morgan
Stanley writes in this, "There are still
credible paths to de-escalation. Markets
are adjusting, but not fully priced for
persistence." Michael joins us now for
more. Michael, good morning.
>> Yeah, good morning.
>> Help us have a better weekend, sir. And
for everyone else around the world, too.
Credible paths to de-escalation, what
are they?
>> Yeah. Well, I mean, they really start
and stop with how the US wants to define
its end goal here, right? And then the
US pulling back. So, credible is not
necessarily the same as easy, right? So,
there there's paths where the US pulls
back and declares victory, there's paths
where the US is engaged in regional
dialogue, but
it really when we talk about how
investors are supposed to think about
this, about whether or not there are
ways to get relief to the global supply
chains, to the US consumer, they really
kind of start and stop with the duration
of the conflict. The discussion about US
policy options, you talked you talked
earlier about the idea of a oil export
ban, those are things that are sort of
late impact tactics at best. So, we
really have to focus on duration.
>> When you look at 2,200 Marines going
towards Iran and potentially going on
the shores of the Strait of Hormuz or
taking Kharg Island, is that a path to
de-escalation?
>> That is a that's potentially a path
towards
getting oil flowing through the region
again, though I can't tell you how
credible or how likely it is that those
things are at work, right? What that
signals to me is that the US is not
looking to or is preparing for an event
where de-escalation might take a long
time and is looking for options to
really sort of force the flow of
commodities through the market again.
>> Also, the Pentagon is asking Congress
for more money.
>> Yeah.
>> That seems like a signal that this is
going to last longer than the two three
weeks the Oval Office has basically was
trying to
>> Yeah.
>> communicate to the world.
>> right and that's what we think investors
really need to be thinking about,
scenario where oil prices are going to
be, you know, 90, 100, 110 dollars a
barrel for a couple of months and what
that means. And practically speaking, we
think that means is a little bit lower
on growth, a little bit higher on
inflation, the Fed push the Fed pushing
off rate cuts, and then the question, of
course, is if we're priced for all of
that and the answer is not completely.
>> Can we work through the numbers? Sure.
So, that request in what, 200 billion?
>> Yes.
>> What's this costing every day at the
moment?
>> Two Oh, that's a that's a great
question.
>> idea of what the numbers are? I'm just
trying to trying to understand what that
200 billion will look like over what
period of time?
>> Yeah, I I
I don't know exactly how much of that is
for ammunition versus labor, but I mean
that 200 billion dollars over is that
the cost for refilling what we spent
over the last 2 weeks? I don't know.
They obviously it's a lot, right? And it
is a lot more probably than the American
people would have uh signed up for if
this had been talked about beforehand.
And so, the other angle of this of
course is what does it mean going into
the midterms, which is you know, it's
not particularly good.
>> That's what I wanted to ask you. Going
into the midterm elections, we're
talking about the Pentagon asking for
more money, increases of deficit,
gasoline prices going up. We are just a
hair away from being $4 a gallon. It's
not five, but $4 a gallon is
psychologically going to impact the
American consumer. What are they
prepared to do?
>> So, I don't think they have a lot of
options here, right? So, they're they're
they're doing what they can. You talked
earlier uh I think earlier in the last
hour about things like
allowing seaborne crude to be sold that
was already under an Iranian flag. Um
I'm sorry, they talked about but then
discussed uh or sort of put away the
idea of a crude ban uh sort of crude
export ban. Um
they're probably going to lean on the
idea that tax refunds are going to help
consumers in the short term, but I I
think really there aren't a lot of
policy options that can mitigate what's
happening here at the pump and what's
going to happen to inflation over the
next few months. However,
um that doesn't necessarily mean that
this has to be an economic disaster,
right? I think a lot of this is going to
be conditional on what the settling
price is for crude over the next few
months. If we're in this zone of kind of
90 to 110 dollars a barrel,
Fed cuts are going to
>> For WTI.
>> Right. Fed cuts are going to get pushed
out. Um and growth is going to be
somewhat slower, but you'll probably
still get those Fed cuts over time or
our economist would say that the demand
degradation is going to mean that you're
going to have to respond to that as
opposed to the oil price itself. And
then you look at what the the equity
market setup coming into this was, and
it's not that it's fully priced for
what's going on, but there was already a
lot of margin compression, half of the
Russell 3000 was down more than 20%
coming in. So, there are signs that as
long as this doesn't become a sort of
out of control $150 barrel uh situation,
that there are things doing the back
end. And then there are obviously larger
themes about the capex that has to go
into rewiring supply chains around all
sorts of conflicts, not just this one,
right? It's a multi-year trend. And then
you look at industrials and there's
opportunities there as well. So,
we want to just focus just on the sort
of, you know, lower growth, higher
inflation impact of this because
ultimately that's a moment we can get
past. We want to focus on the secular
multi-year trend.
>> Michael, it's good to see you. Thanks
for being here to break it down. Michael
says it's that of Morgan Stanley.
>> Speaking to that, Mike Wilson and the
team over at Morgan Stanley as well.
Still pretty constructive looking out 6
to 12 months. And if you ask an equity
bull right now, what's anchoring the
view, what anchors the bull case right
now, and it's earnings. And you'd have
to believe that this shock leads to a
massive hit to earnings
>> [music]
>> to get bearish and bearish quickly, and
I don't see many people willing to do
that right now, at least they side.
>> The price would need to go higher for
oil, and it would need to be more
prolonged. But the [music] biggest bull
on the street knocked on wood earlier
this morning.
>> Futures this morning on the S&P [music]
negative by 0.4. Up next, Paul Sankey of
Sankey Research as the US and Israel
look to calm energy concerns.
Let's take stock of the price action.
Equity futures right now on the S&P
negative by 0.4, just off session lows.
On the Nasdaq, we're down by 0.5, still
heading towards a fourth consecutive
week of losses on the benchmarks stay
side, the longest weekly losing streak
going back more than 12 months on the
S&P [music] 500. The losses over that
period not that great. We're still down
only 5% or so from all-time highs on the
S&P [music] 500. The losses elsewhere,
of course, much greater. In the bond
market, shaping up as follows for
2-year, 10-year, 30-year bond yields.
[music] Yields higher at the front end
of the curve by seven basis points, 3.85
76. The move elsewhere internationally
much bigger. So, we take stock of what
we've seen since the war started, 15
days of price action. We've seen a move
of almost [music] 50 basis points at the
front end of the US curve. At the front
end of the UK curve, the 2-year yield is
higher by almost 100 basis points.
[music] We've priced out easing stay
side. We're pricing in interest rate
hikes elsewhere in the UK and over in
Europe at the ECB. Let's finish on the
commodity story. The commodity story
right now, Brent and WTI. Brent crude at
107.85,
down on the session now. WTI down on the
day and also down on the week. [music]
WTI at 94.57, Brent at 107.85.
But, as we said consistently throughout
this program, then financial markets
were always pricing and quoting the
front end of the futures curve.
>> [music]
>> And what you're really seeing elsewhere
is the physical market gets so much
tighter and these [music] moves, these
numbers so much greater.
>> Oman, Dubai, those kind of futures,
those kind of barrels, they're moving at
155, 160, 170 depending on the moment of
time in the day. And those cargoes are
going to Asia, which is why [music] what
you see in these Asian economies is
rationing, fuel cuts, please carpool.
You're seeing I saw a story from
Thailand. [music] Thai Buddhist monks
can no longer have the cremation because
they have to make sure that they're
hoarding diesel and not using it right
away. This is hitting these economies in
a massive way. And to the rate story,
Europe is going to be next.
>> Europe very much in focus as we count
you down to the open about two hours
away stay side. Let's get you some
morning movers. Danny has more. Hey,
Danny.
>> Hey, John. Some earnings out from FedEx
and it is a beat. Uh pushing up to $20
per share for their earnings. Before the
high expectation had been 19. It shows
that their turnaround, that their
efforts to reshape the company has been
working. They also said when it [music]
comes to effective the Middle East,
they're not seeing any direct impact.
So, inability to weather that. Those
shares are up 8% in the pre-market. Uh
elsewhere, uh the US charging uh
uh the co-founder of Supermicro
[music] with illegally diverting
billions of dollars worth of
Nvidia-backed servers to China. Uh that
is the co-founder Wally Lee Wow. Uh they
allege that him, a manager, and a
contractor sold chips to a South Asian
company knowing [music] that it would
end up in China. Uh the lawyers of the
co-founder have uh uh declined to
comment to Bloomberg and the company
itself says that they've placed the
co-founder on administrative leave.
Elsewhere, Gemini, those shares are up
3.8%.
This is the Winklevoss twins uh crypto
exchange saying that over the past year
they've let go 30% of their workforce.
They said that as they announced losses
[music] both for the quarter and for the
entirety of the year. It's been a tough
go for Bitcoin companies with the price
falling 40% uh so far from its peak this
year. Uh and as a story we've heard a
lot before, they say that they're going
to be replacing those workers with AI
tools, John.
>> Danny, thanks for the update. Danny
Berger that breaking down some of the
moves. We'll have more from Danny in the
next [music] hour. That Supermicro story
is nuts every time I hear about it. All
the way down this morning, let's talk
about energy. Tehran pressing on with
attacks in the Middle East as Israel
vows to stop targeting Iranian energy. A
drone strike hitting a Kuwaiti oil
refinery today and forcing the shutdown
of several units. Elsewhere, Gulf
nations working to protect just how much
crude prices could rise if disruptions
in the Strait of Hormuz continue through
April. Saudi oil officials telling the
Wall Street Journal prices could spike
beyond $180
a barrel. And finally, the president,
Donald Trump, continuing his pressure
campaign on Fed chair, Jay Powell.
>> He should be lowering rates immediately,
but he he won't do that cuz he's he's a
stubborn, incompetent person, and that's
a bad thing. You know, when you're
stubborn and incompetent, I think it's
the worst combination. And he's also not
a smart person.
>> The president signaling his support for
the DOJ investigation into Powell, which
could delay the confirmation of Fed
chair nominee, Kevin Warsh. There was an
off-ramp. They're not taking it.
>> So, this is what I keep going back to.
The president basically had two doors
and options when the US District Court
came out and basically said, "We're
scrapping this. The subpoenas aren't
viable." You could have had an off-ramp.
This was a gift, potentially. Quickly
wrap this up, Senator Tillis gets on
board, you can have Kevin Warsh as your
next Fed chair. Your nominee is no
longer just hanging out there in
purgatory. He's going over to the Fed.
They're doubling down. They are doubling
down. Jeanine Pirro is going for the
She's saying, "We're going to appeal
this." And this means this is going to
be a lot longer, which is why And I'm
not saying I'm a conspiracy theorist,
but which is why potentially you have to
think if this is the option the
president took when he had this gift in
front of him, does he potentially want
Jay Powell there a little bit longer cuz
they think the economy's going to be
weaker and they want a fall guy?
>> That's one conspiracy. The great irony
right now is they'd get those interest
rate cuts if we didn't have the war in
the Middle East. We've priced out the
easing in America. We've priced in rate
hikes in Europe, in the UK, precisely
because of the move in energy. Crude
heading for another weekly gain. Brent
crude looking at another weekly gain for
Brent this morning. Brent up on the
session briefly, up on the week big
time, up on the month by something like
50% and the US and Israel struggling to
de-escalate the situation. Paul Sankey
of Sankey Research writing, "You broke
it, you bought it." This is the
terrifying near-term question. Either
Iran controls the strait or the USA
controls it. Paul joins us now for more.
Paul, good morning.
>> Morning.
>> How much is broken in the Middle East
right now?
>> Well, now it's almost turning into a
humanitarian crisis on the ships. You
know, there's now 3,500 ships that
stranded with the you know, running out
of water and everything else. So, the
scale of the disaster here unfortunately
basically continues to deteriorate.
Although as you mentioned, there's a
mild improvement in so far as Netanyahu
was saying no more energy infrastructure
attacks. But you just quoted me saying
you broke it, you bought it. You know,
it's having attacked South Pars, they've
really opened a horrendous Pandora's
Box. And we understand that the Haifa
refinery, which is 200,000 barrel a day
biggest refinery in Israel, was hit and
was on fire yesterday. So, this
continues and let's just hope that we
don't get into a global terrorism here
against
against energy infrastructure as well,
which would be more of an 180 type
scenario if this actually spreads
outside the region, which it more or
less had already because we had the
situation where the Ukrainians blew up a
Russian LNG carrying Russian LNG tanker
in the Mediterranean going into this
catastrophe. So, the situation is bad.
We've highlighted today as a very big
day. Ramadan ends, Iranian New Year
starts, and we have quadruple witching.
So, I think we'll be in a pretty wild
day here as the certainly as the crude
contract rolls. It should be pretty
crazy, I would think.
>> Gulf nations have sat this out. Let's
just talk about the Canada. They have
focused on a defensive posture. Do you
see that changing at all?
>> I do, yeah, because I think they'll form
a a GCC NATO, you know, and they'll
become a block of their own. And then I
think what they'll try and do is engage
the Iranians. I think part of that deal
would have to have have some sort of
withdrawal of the US
forces within their own country. So,
it's an enormous question that one for
them to deal with.
>> Hold on. Withdrawal of US forces?
Yesterday I had Marco Rubio usurping
Congress and sending more hardware to a
number of Gulf countries. They're not a
monolith.
>> Yeah, I think I think one of the the the
of nightmares for them has been that
when it all kicked off, which was
completely to their surprise, especially
that you know, that they were directly
attacked by Iran during Ramadan.
Um basically the feeling was that the
the Americans prioritized Israel and
protecting Israel. And so the extent to
which you know, the US is aligned
completely with Netanyahu's Israel is a
major problem obviously for the GCC
members and the Iranians. So the
question is then they would be forced to
to turn to China. Which I'm sure that
they don't love the idea of that, but
that's the will turn it. And when you
think about what's happening here, as
you mentioned, it's all about Asian
supply. You know, it's a global market,
but the the majority of what they're
doing here is sending stuff to Asia. So
it could be, you know, a massive
realignment here as the US
does what was stated and focuses back on
the Western Hemisphere and then these
guys kind of go with more of an Asian
alignment and Asian defense and make an
agreement with Iran, which then it ends
effectively with Iran controlling the
Straits of Hormuz, which is obviously
not ideal.
>> When you say these guys, you're talking
about the GCC. I want to just stay on
this point for a second because I know
the Omani Foreign Minister, his
economist piece sort of went viral cuz
he was saying America has lost its way.
Okay, put them in one camp. But the
Saudis and Emiratis are squarely backing
Washington in this moment, no?
>> Well, the understanding was and we don't
know how true this is that Muhammad bin
Salman, the leader of Saudi Arabia, had
been encouraging, you know, if you if
you broke it, you bought it, encouraging
continued bombing of Iran until, you
know, the regime was really in disarray.
But we had an intelligence call with
this with Tel Aviv yesterday and he was
saying that when you can add it all up,
Iran has 2 million
military or you know, military
associated troops in a country of 93
million. And so one outcome could be a
civil war within Iran.
But it's going to be very, very
difficult basically to just bomb Iran
into regime change. And you know, you're
beginning to say I think the regime
change here might come in November when
you have midterms in the US and
elections in Israel with Netanyahu's
popularity at about a 40% level.
You know, not great within Israel. We
might end up with regime change of
exactly the opposite that was intended.
>> They sound like massive changes. What
are you advocating for with clients
right now in markets, in commodities, in
energy stocks?
>> Well, obviously the US comes out of this
as as as it came in as the world's
biggest oil and gas supplier and and now
it's become absolutely crucial to
everyone which is one of the things was
please don't stop putting in export
bans. Please don't mess with the market
more than you already have.
And so we seem to have dodged that
bullet through the
US oil executives meeting Trump, through
you know, Chris Wright being a
a real energy guy.
And so that that's, you know,
encouraging. My concern is demand
destruction, economic destruction. You
know, you're in a situation here where
Dubai apparently is losing a million
dollars a minute. You've seen gold
falling which could well be government
selling gold. To give you an idea of the
you know, the scale of the economic
catastrophe.
>> Are you saying we've got to that point
where we're starting to monetize gold
holdings because they're using gold?
>> in this tape you've got to wonder why in
this tape gold would be going down
because obviously you know, in a high
risk tape you'd expect the opposite and
the one one theory would be that you
have government selling gold in order to
shore up their you know, collapsing
finances because as you know, the scale
of the daily sales here is absolutely
enormous and it's gone to zero and these
countries have pretty big outgoings.
>> Paul, you said more than they ever
already had in terms of impacting
financial markets. Are you talking about
a tweet then delete the tweet to try to
impact prices? Are you talking about
what they say they have not done which
is the Treasury Department actually
getting into the futures market?
>> That one was super strange because there
was fairly I mean I had a oil trader out
of New York oil trader chat to saying
you know, there was govern there was
somebody selling through JP Morgan in
that first week when oil absolutely
collapsed 2 days after this started. And
those numbers were actually doing the
round with with quite significant
numbers attached. You know, it was said
to be 50 to to 100 million barrels of of
sales on paper. One thing to keep in
mind here by the way is that WTI now
includes Brent. And so those two
markers, you know, you have a you have a
mix of stuff within the actual paper
market, which again is expiring today.
Um you know, the extent to which we now
need a new sets of uh markers or new
markers are developing in the Middle
East to try and capture what in many
ways is a suspended market, right? You
actually don't have a market in the
Middle East at the moment for a lot of
exports. And so that's why prices are
very misleading at the moment and it's
just simply very likely to be volatile.
The general idea is to stay long oil at
this point. Uh you know, hope that
there's some sort of the big taco will
be we're not bombing, we declare
victory.
And uh see how the Iranians react to
that. But it's not obvious that the
Iranians will then say, "Okay, we'll
stop too." And even if you do, you've
then effectively empowered the Iranians
because what you've said is, "Okay, we
give up." So it's it's an extremely
tough situation. We've been liking US
refining through thick and thin actually
prior to this anyway. Uh I think, you
know, it's very impressive the way US
gas is performing. I find it cold in New
York. And we're seeing that, you know,
you have that enormous implied arbitrage
between the biggest single loser here,
which is European gas prices going
absolutely through the roof.
Putin more or less laughing in their
face.
Um it's it's a crazy irony that the big
winner ends up being US energy.
>> Just a final question. And a bit of a
home bias. So just let us go with this.
The North Sea oil, this has become a big
talking point in the UK.
Where are we now? What do you think's
going to happen?
>> Well, I mean, you know, I find the the
UK energy secretary talks absolute
garbage. I mean, he says that he you
know, the UK is subject to uh
to imp- international prices and can't
do anything about it having basically
shut down the North Sea. The North Sea,
as you know, is far more heavily
exploited than the Norwegian North Sea.
The Norwegians did the most exemplary
job of managing their oil industry that
we've ever seen. Um but in the UK, the
fact that they've more or less shut down
the North Sea when the UK represents
less than 1% of global emissions is is
just a nonsensical energy policy and I
think one of the huge outcomes of this
entire thing will be you've got to have
strong domestic energy supply and it's
going to be nuclear. It's going to be
very bullish coal. And ultimately, it's
going to encourage places like the UK to
turn around and start re-exploiting
their North Sea. You desperately need
economic development in the north of the
UK. And and primary economic development
>> clear on the asset though, you don't
think we're geologically constrained,
you think we're ideologically
constrained.
>> More ideologically
uh and governmentally insofar as you
change the tax rate so many times in
what is a relatively very high-risk uh
province that you know, it's just
uninvestable. And you've got to put in
some Now, you know, if you remember the
windfall tax of '22, just starts getting
extended and extended. It's just it's I
I call it economic harakiri.
And then what they've got to do is say,
"Okay, look, we guarantee through some
method that you will not change North
Sea taxes for the next 20 years." And
then companies can come back in and
start to uh re-exploit what would be a
potentially very good source of natural
gas for the UK, which would be highly
complementary to all the wind that
they've built. So, it's it's just poor
energy policy at this point.
>> Paul, it's good to see you. Thanks for
breaking it down. Honest, brutal. Paul
Sankey there of Sankey Research.
And because you don't have that energy
security right now, it's going to cost
you more and I think some of that is
showing up in the bond market. It's not
just a rate story, it's not just about
central banks, it's about fiscal space
as well.
>> They don't have the fiscal space and I
think you have to remember the context
of all this. This is what, the third
energy shock for Europe? There was
COVID, it went in a different direction,
but there was Russia's invasion of
Ukraine. They are still dealing with
that. They are still importing Russian
energy because they have no choice. And
now you're seeing force majeure
potentially on LNG contracts from Cutter
to Europe. They are in dire straits for
this winter.
>> It's not a good place to be in, that's
for sure. Let's get you an update on
stories out swing this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yahara has more. Hi
Yahara.
>> Hi John.
President Donald Trump joking yesterday
about Pearl Harbor during his meeting
with the Japanese Prime Minister at the
White House. Trump saying this after
being asked why the US did not inform
[music] allies in advance of the strike
on Iran.
>> Who knows better about surprises Japan?
Okay, why didn't you tell me about Pearl
Harbor?
>> The president saying Japan is quote
[music] really stepping up to the plate.
We've had tremendous support and
relationship with Japan on everything.
The Federal Reserve unveiling proposals
to relax capital requirements for Wall
Street's biggest banks. [music]
The changes could potentially unleash
billions of dollars for lending, share
buybacks, and dividends. [music]
The bank The plans are subject to a
90-day public consultation, but if
approved, would represent a major win
for the industry. [music]
And OpenAI is developing a desktop
application to bring together its
ChatGPT [music]
chatbot, coding tool, and web browser.
The company trying to keep users engaged
in the face of rising competition for
rivals like Anthropic. It's unclear when
the application will launch. That's your
Bloomberg brief, John. [music]
>> Yahara, thank you. More from Yahara in
the next stand in about 30 minutes time.
Up next on the program, bracing for
inflation.
>> A prolonged war in the Middle East could
lead to a larger and longer-lasting
upward [music] shift in energy prices.
>> But it is too soon to know the scope and
duration.
>> None of us can predict what it will be.
>> Up next, Terry Wismann of Macquarie live
from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
Starts a negative [music] by 0.5% on the
S&P 500 on the Nasdaq we're down by 0.6
energy still elevated but down on the
session now Brent at 107 WTI at 94.
Under Savannah's this morning bracing
for inflation.
>> A prolonged war in the Middle East could
lead to a larger and longer-lasting
upward shift in energy prices.
>> Higher energy prices will push up
overall inflation but it is too soon to
know the scope and duration of the
potential effects on the economy.
>> Well, the next time we meet a [music]
lot will have happened and I can't
predict what I can't possibly none of us
can predict what it will be. But it is a
very volatile situation.
>> It's certainly very volatile. Here's the
latest this morning the conflict in the
Middle East pushing global bond yield
higher as central banks weigh increasing
inflationary risk. Terry Wismann of
Macquarie writing the ultimate cost of
the war is unknown but bond traders
aren't taking any chances. Terry joins
us now for more. Terry good morning.
>> Okay, good morning, John.
>> Terry walked in I said what's going on?
What kind of a question is that?
>> In a day like today.
>> what a ride it's been in the old bond
market. What's your reaction to the
moves we've seen particularly at the
front end of the curve?
>> Well, the front end of the curve is
responding to policy of course, John.
It's it's you know, we what we wrote on
March March 4th actually just a few days
after the war began was that
central banks were going to respond to
this war and to the implications having
for oil prices in a hawkish fashion.
Now, that might not have been obvious on
March 4th, right? That you know,
in terms of crisis and certainly in
terms of high oil prices we've also seen
historically
higher unemployment. We've seen
recessions in some cases.
But I felt that these central banks
would have been felt burned
by what had happened in 2022 and 2023
and that they weren't going to take any
chances. So, it's not just the bond
traders are not taking any chances here.
The central banks aren't taking any
chances as well, certainly not through
their rhetoric and that's why the front
end of the curves have have moved up and
that's why you've seen these very wide
swings in the last few days in the
the
money market's projection of where
central bank policy rates are going to
be at the end of this year.
>> you as well, Terry, because the
consensus view coming into these central
bank meetings is they would look through
this shock. Chairman Powell effectively
said it's not that simple and the
takeaway from the ECB and the BOE is
they might actually hike in the next
several months.
>> Sure and and keep in mind there's
something going on here besides just the
increase in oil prices and its
transmission to CPI, for example,
because if it was just that, it might
not be that big a deal because in in
many of these industrialized countries,
you know, the the energy
products are not that large a component
of the CPI basket. I think what central
banks are worried about are the
so-called
second-order effects
whereby if you do get an increase in
inflation, let's say by half a percent
or three quarters of a percent, it
becomes sticky because it becomes
embedded inflation expectations, it then
becomes embedded in wage demands and you
don't have just the impulse from the
original increase in oil prices, but you
have a propagation of inflation
expectations that causes more inflation.
That's why they're trying to nip this in
the bud right now.
Admittedly through their rhetoric at
first, but if they have to raise rates,
they will raise rates.
>> Can we talk about the cost of this war?
>> Sure.
>> Today, I believe you said it's 1 to 2
billion dollars. Now, you have the
Pentagon asking Congress for 200
billion. Are we going to see movement on
the long end of the yield curve because
of this?
>> the long end of the curves have moved up
for three reasons and one of them is
clearly the fiscal implications. But
let's talk about the first two reasons.
The first reason, the most important
reason I think is just higher inflation.
When you have higher inflation, nominal
assets, nominal paying coupon assets
like long-term bonds, just seem all of a
sudden less attractive. And we know
that's the case because break-evens in
these in these markets have gone up,
inflation break-evens that is, telling
you that the market itself is expecting
more long-term inflation. People have
been fleeing into the inflation
protected products. They've been fleeing
out, relatively speaking, of the nominal
products. So, yields are going up on the
long end of the US Treasury curve and in
the long end of the curves in Europe.
The other uh issue here, of course, is
that central banks are tightening. And
that makes it more expensive to carry a
position in long bonds. You're financing
it at a higher rate. It becomes less
attractive to do that. You sell off the
long bond. And the third reason is the
one you've just highlighted, which is
that there might be more issuance. Why?
Because there's a cost to managing and
running a war. And uh I've I've seen
reports suggesting it's
1 to 2 billion dollars per day uh is the
cost of the US right now. So, obviously,
if this becomes a long war, it could
start to impinge on the on the outlook
for deficits.
>> We've got about 45 seconds left. We had
a guest earlier on the program who said
some value had opened up at the front
end of the curve. The bar to hike is
simply too high. Yields are through
where Fed funds are right now. Can't
push it much further. And if they do
hike over the next 2 years, they may
well cut in response to those hikes
further down the road. Where do you
think value has opened up across the
curve?
>> Look, I I think it's not just a question
of of where on the curve, but maybe
where internationally. Uh we have seen
uh major the very aggressive swings,
let's say, in in where the market
expects the ECB to be at the end of the
year. Three hikes, for example, is
priced in currently. Uh two or three
from from the BOE.
I think there the market may have
overreacted. And the market may be
anticipating that this war will take
will last longer than it might actually
do so. And of course, if it doesn't and
if it ends uh somewhat sooner, you're
going to see uh those the reactions in
the front end come back down. So, if I
were looking for value in the short in
the in the short end of the curve, it's
not so much uh where on the curve, you
know, 6 months, 12 months, 18 months.
It's It's internationally. I think some
markets have simply reacted more than
others, and that might be where the
value is.
>> Very strong points. Good to see you.
Thank you, sir. Terry Weissman there of
Macquarie. Up next, Omair Altaf of
Schwab, Laleh Khorrami [music] of PIMCO,
Michael Darda of Roth Capital, and
Jonathan Golub of Seaport. The third
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance up next.
>> Investors was paralyzed awaiting to see
how the conflict ends.
>> It's almost like the market is saying,
"Maybe [music] this can still be a
short-lived event."
>> Markets are repricing the front end
pretty aggressively. [music]
>> The rates market so far is definitely
weighing the inflationary impact. This
is a ruthlessly efficient market in
exposing kind of where the fault lines
are.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Ann Marie Hoerdern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from audience
worldwide. The third hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. With your
scores shaping up as follows. Equity
futures on the S&P negative by 0.3%
heading towards a fourth consecutive
weekly loss on the S&P 500. On the
Nasdaq, down by 0.5. In the bond market,
taking stock of a major move month to
date [music] since this war started, a
50 basis point climb at the front end of
the curve. 386 this morning, [music]
even bigger in the UK. Turn to crude.
Brent, WTI. Brent 107, WTI 94. [music]
Actually down on the session by 1.5,
call it 1.6% as Israel and the US
[music]
do their best to turn down the
temperature and stop this situation
spiraling out of control.
>> They're basically saying energy targets
are no longer [music] on the table. The
problem is, can you put that toothpaste
back in the bottle? I don't think so.
When you have the Iranians coming out
and saying, well, they're not for us.
And what did we see? Kuwait was hit.
[music] An oil facility in Kuwait was
hit this morning. So, that was after the
president and Benjamin Netanyahu spoke
yesterday. And I think what's going on
in terms of you [music] said it at the
top of the program. It's an energy shock
that moves to a rate shock. The reason
why they're con- so concerned in Europe
is cuz you have the Qatar energy CEO,
Saad Al Kaabi, coming out and saying the
damage is going to be more sustainable.
This is going to be years. And this is
the line that stuck out to me. This will
mean that we will be compelled to
declare force majeure for up to 5 years
>> [music]
>> on some long-term LNG contracts.
Gasoline for a natural gas just got a
whole lot more expensive.
>> Put up the UK curve if we can. Let's
check out gilts. And we'll work our way
through the curve. And we'll start on
twos. The two-year at the moment is
about 449.
So, let's call it 450. That's about 100
basis points higher than it was before
the war. We were talking about interest
rate cuts in February, and now we're
talking about interest rate hikes.
That's the front end. The longer end of
the curve, on tens, up by eight basis
points, just short of 5%. The highest
level, going back to 2008. [music]
And that's not just about interest rates
and inflation, that's about fiscal
space.
That's the third factor here that isn't
being talked about enough, I don't
think, in fixed income.
The limited fiscal space that some of
these countries have [music]
to help offset this for consumers in a
moment like this, if this endures.
That's a problem. We saw the headline
from Spain earlier [music] on. They're
going to have an economic package to
offset some of the difficulties. Others
are going to, too. And you're going to
see that take place across Europe if
>> [music]
>> these production hits keep coming.
>> And that's what you're seeing in Spain
in terms of energy is very expensive in
Europe because it is highly taxed. The
reason why it's not as expensive in the
United States, that's what's one reason,
besides the fact the US is a net energy
exporter. But you're right, Spain's the
first one. Who's going to be next?
France, Italy, the United Kingdom?
There's going to be a number of packages
that these countries want to take on.
Also about [music] fiscal space, look
what's going on in the United States.
And Terry is saying you're seeing it
already in the long end. The Pentagon
yesterday saying they're going to have
to ask Congress for $200 billion more.
That says to me that this crisis is
going to be more prolonged than some
members of the market think it is.
>> Based on how much that war is costing at
the moment, I'm not sure how long $200
billion
will actually last.
>> That's a very good point. Terry is
talking about the reports that we've all
been seeing, $1 to $2 billion
>> [music]
>> per day that this is costing. And then
you have to also think about the fact
that we only had one drawdown so far of
the SPR. Are they going to have to tap
that again? There's going to be a number
of measures this administration, and
also it's an election year, potentially
in a bipartisan fashion, Congress is
going to have to take to address the
concerns [music] that are impacting from
this war.
>> Gasoline this close, this far away
from $4 a gallon. Coming up on this
program, we'll catch up with Omar
Aguilar of Schwab Asset Management with
stocks on track for 4 weeks of declines.
Lotfi Karoui of PIMCO on increasing
pressure in fixed income, and Mike Darda
of Roth Capital as he'll search on
rising inflation risk. We begin this
hour with stocks lower. Omar Aguilar of
Schwab writing investors should avoid
overreacting. Stay invested, stay
diversified, stay disciplined. It is
better to be balanced than risk on or
risk off. Omar joins us now for more.
Omar, is that conservative, sensible, or
just complacent?
>> Well, I think, you know, this is the
time where, you know, we we got to take
stock and and try to be prepared for any
potential outcomes. I think
as you've been discussing with other
guests and as we've seen in the data,
there is a lot of potential outcomes
that could happen. And and I think every
day, you know, the number of potential
outcomes continues to be wide. And you
know, we we want our clients to just be
prepared and not necessarily take one
big side or one other side because, you
know, as we have seen historically, uh
the different scenarios could play out
that if the conflict ends quickly, you
know, the market has a historical way to
rebound and recover very quickly. So,
you don't necessarily want to be, you
know, placing in a place where you are
left out. On the other hand, you know,
we we could have a very prolonged and
sustained damage that could affect
growth, and therefore you also don't
want to be extremely bullish. So, this
is one where, you know, it's better to
be well diversified, but at the same
time be very conservative and very very
risk risk control in order for you to be
prepared for any potential outcomes that
may come out of this.
>> Before we get into how you do that, can
you give us the sentiment check? You've
got a ton of clients. Do you sense that
the fear of missing out on gains is
greater than the fear of losses right
now?
>> Right now, they're in the loss aversion,
and the risk aversion has been
increasing dramatically for the last,
you know, two or three weeks. So,
clients, you know, started to just, you
know, be concerned about, you know, what
would be the length of these the
implications. And in many cases, they
see it not just because of of the
results and the volatility we see on any
given day, but they also see in their
regular lives. You know, the the effect
on on gas prices, the effect of just the
potential inflation hit, you know,
something that, you know, clients are
starting to feel, and that's the natural
reaction is to just become, you know,
risk averse. So, the risk aversion is is
definitely there. The sentiment towards
being uncertain is is is growing higher.
You know, you will see things like today
where nobody wants to go on a weekend
like this with any positions, you know,
they will try to just stay flat, and
that's probably the right approach, you
know, as we go into the next few days.
>> You mentioned the word diversification.
The fear of '22 and a repeat of '22 is
when the correlation between stocks and
bonds turns positive, and it's hard to
get away from. You get losses in stocks,
you get losses in bonds. Where's the
diversification right now?
>> Well, I think if you if you go for the
last two days, you know, there's
definitely the same feeling that we have
back in 2022. And now the big difference
in this particular time, unlike 2022,
where we were just, you know, coming out
of COVID, our economy was not in the
best shape. We were better prepared
here. So, I think in many cases, you
know, our current
feeling and our current positioning is
that the fixed income market seems to be
extrapolating fairly aggressive, you
know, what the potential implication of
inflation might be. Inflation
expectations has gone through the roof,
not just in the US, but you know, it's
probably even more in Europe and in the
UK. And then, you know, the market is
now going from potentially easing
financial conditions and monetary policy
being easy to now, you know, pricing in
rates that could be, you know, over, you
know, 75 basis points in some cases. So,
so that that translation has actually
gone into the different type of setting
because, you know, right now, you know,
we're talking about the implications of
inflation, not the implications of
economic deceleration. I think that's
the biggest difference. That trade-off
between, you know, what is the market
pricing it today is a significant
inflation hit is basically what is
driving inflation expectations higher
and yields higher, whereas, you know,
the long-term implications for the
economy hasn't been priced in
completely.
If you actually see that just in the
level of
of downturns that we have had in the
market, you know, for an impact of this
level, you know, the markets and the
general indices are not down as much as
you would expect. So, the economic
backdrop here seems to be giving a
little floor for risky assets. Fixed
income seems to be, you know, taking a
hit first.
>> Omar, it's a very good point. When do
you think we would see potentially
investors start to take more on board
the fact that this is not just
inflationary up front, but this is going
to be a long-term economic hit?
>> Yeah, I think, you know, the longer this
conflict, you know, continues, the the
the worse it will get for economic
growth. And the GDP progression, we even
saw with the the the discussion on the
dot plots at the Fed, as well as just
the the Jerome Powell's overall,
you know, language was related to the
fact that they still see GDP being
consistent consistently good. They don't
necessarily see yet the effect of
consumers. And I think consumption is
going to be the driver of this. I think
the longer we see this, especially as we
get closer to the summer months, you
know, that will, you know, get into
place where clearly GDP will be
affected. I think again, you know, in
many ways today, you know, the the
implications of, you know, gas prices
being higher, the supply chain being
disrupted, feels a little bit more like
a tariff, you know, hit that we saw last
year, and less of of the economic
situation we have in 2022.
>> So, you think the Fed could look through
it, then? If it's similar to a tariff
hit.
>> That seems to be what is projected. If
you just look at the dot plots, just
they even updated, they still had one
rate cut, you know, in there. You know,
market seems to be, you know,
disagreeing with the Fed, saying, like,
well, there's going to be certainly not
not no cuts here. But overall, the the
central banks are thinking about that
this could go through, you know, we can
probably end these results, and then the
economy can sustain it. I think the
longer the conflict it stays, you know,
the more difficult will that be.
>> Am I It's going to catch up with you to
get your thoughts, Ammar Agrawala of
Schroders Investment and to get a read
on clients right now and what some of
their investors are doing at the moment.
>> It's very challenging because it up
front, you have this potential
inflationary shock, even though the US
maybe is a little bit more insulated
from that. You do potentially will have
this inflationary shock. We're seeing it
in diesel prices. As you say, we're a
hair away from $4 a gallon of gasoline.
At some point, consumers might say, this
is just too much to fill up my car. I'm
going to have to be choiceful elsewhere.
And then at what point does that start
to hit economic growth projections?
>> And now we hate that word, choiceful.
>> I did it. I did it, you know, just to
rile you up a little bit on a Friday.
>> I can't stand that word. Futures right
now in the S&P negative by 2/10 of 1%
rebounding nicely here going into the
opening bell about an hour and 20
minutes away. Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
Brief. Yahaira has more. Hey Yahaira.
>> Hey John.
Iran is stepping up its attacks on
energy sites on neighboring Gulf states
after Israel bombed its primary offshore
natural gas field.
>> [music]
>> Iran striking an oil refinery in Kuwait
for the second straight day forcing the
plant to shut down some of its [music]
units. Brent, as you can see, has surged
more than 40% since the war started
nearly 4 weeks [music] ago.
Shares of Supermicro are plunging now
nearly 26% in the premarket. The US
charging one of the company's
co-founders with illegally sending AI
tech to China. Wally Liao is accused of
sending US-assembled [music] servers
containing Nvidia's cutting-edge chips
in violation of US export controls.
And JP Morgan is starting a program to
monitor its junior bankers' digital
activity. The Financial Times reporting
the program [music]
is aimed at curbing overwork. The
program will track bankers' weekly
digital footprints including video
calls, desktop keystrokes, and scheduled
meetings. That's your Bloomberg Brief,
John.
>> Yahaira, thank you. More from Yahaira
later this hour. Up next the Morning
Call's Plus. This one you don't want to
miss. Lotfi Karoui of PIMCO
>> [music]
>> on increasing pressure in fixed income.
We'll talk credit, broader fixed income,
and private markets in just a moment
from New York City. [music] You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
>> The US is not looking to or is preparing
for an event where de-escalation might
take a long [music] time and is looking
for options to
>> really sort of force the flow of
commodities [music] through market
again. Investors really need to be
thinking about a scenario where oil
prices are going to be, you know, 90,
100, 110 dollars a barrel for a couple
of months.
>> We're starting to internalize some of
that. That was Michael Zezas of Morgan
Stanley. It's been a big week in this
market cross asset, not stocks really,
and perhaps not even in crude. It's been
in the bond market where we've seen
these big headlines. Equity futures
right now in the S&P 500 [music]
declining by a few tenths of 1%. The S&P
down by a third, the Nasdaq down by 0.4%
in the [music] bond market. Speaking of
those moves, we've had 10 basis point
hikes to the two-year yield, up another
six this morning, 385 [music] 34, up on
the month by something like 50. If you
look at the UK, that number's closer to
100 at the front end of the curve on
tens at 4:30 in the US and the UK, the
highest since 2008. These bond moves
really start to pick up speed
>> [music]
>> through the week so far.
>> The market is thinking potentially
you're going to see hikes and we saw
that yesterday from the Bank of England
that everyone was saying they're going
to cut. Now people are pricing in hikes.
>> [music]
>> European Central Bank have a governing
council member come out and say, well,
maybe we can move as soon as next month,
maybe by the end of April you can see
the ECB having to do this because they
are so concerned about inflation because
they are really the heart, after Asia it
is going to be that next, Europe, when
it comes to the energy shock.
>> And not just the fringe of the ECB for
that matter. That official was the
German Central Bank president, so
there's a lot of weight behind that name
going into a governing council meeting,
that's for sure. That's the set up this
morning. Let's get you some money calls.
First up, JP Morgan upgrading Occidental
to neutral, seeing a solid balance sheet
despite Middle [music] East exposure.
That name is up by 1%. Your second call
from HSBC upgrading Chevron to buy,
citing more leverage to rising commodity
[music] prices. And finally, raising
its price target on FedEx to 410, saying
[music] the conflict in the Middle East
is not expected to have a material
impact on that name. FedEx up by close
to 7%. Let's get to it then. Continued
inflation concerns sending bond yields
rising across the globe. The US 10-year
yield rising about 25 basis points since
the start of the month with the front
end of the curve, the move even bigger.
Joining us now to discuss this Lofti
Karoui, the multi-asset credit
strategist at PIMCO. Lofti, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> We've got a lot to get through. So,
let's just start with the energy shock.
How is that playing out through fixed
income at the moment?
>> A tailwind to the high-yield market in
relative terms. Uh obviously, you know,
the way I like to see it is that, you
know, we're at a point right now where
it's on just about one big trade. Oil
prices need to be, you know, stabilizing
a little bit. You need to unwind some of
that risk premium. But, it's creating
some relative value opportunities. The
high-yield market is showing some
resilience. It's 11% energy, and so
energy has sort of
you know, provided a lot of support to
the index. And then some of the
commodities light parts of the market
are underperforming. The broadly
syndicated loan market is is is a good
example. Uh and then outside of credit,
obviously, as you alluded to, the moves
that we're seeing in the front end of
the curve have been sick.
>> Absolutely nothing shy of spectacular.
Um
and I will see how that plays out. But,
to me, it's one big trade, and it's oil
prices.
>> Well, let's get to that line. We'll see
how this plays out. I want an idea from
you on how you think this is going to
play out. We've priced in a lot now.
We're pricing in three hikes at the ECB,
maybe a couple at the Bank of England.
Price that all the easing at the Federal
Reserve. Are you willing to push back
against that view at the moment?
>> Yes and no. Uh I mean, if I go back the
last 5 to 6 years, if you think about
it, every 18 months or so, we had a
supply shock. We had COVID, we had the
Russia-Ukraine you know, conflict, and
then we had tariffs, and now we have the
war in the Middle East. And so, if you
walk in the shoes of a central banker,
in the back of your mind, you're
probably thinking about the risk that
inflation expectations get de-anchored a
little bit. And so, to me, what we've
seen, particularly in the UK and Europe,
is a dramatic change in the distribution
of outcomes, at least the way it is
perceived by the market. I think, you
know, you'll have to be in show-me mode
a little bit and wait to see evidence
that, you know, oil prices are are sort
of reversing their their their their
massive increase that that they've seen
the last couple weeks.
>> think we need to get used to a regime of
shocks, of more shocks? It's the
Chancellor asked about this in the news
conference, and he kind of shrugged it
off and said, "Yeah, well, this is out
of our control. This happened, that
happened." Is this a new regime?
>> Yeah, I mean, there is risk that that
actually ends up being a new regime. And
again, you go back the last five years,
empirically, we've been there already
for, you know, since 2021.
>> Lotfi, you also said there's it's this
is all one big trade, and it's oil
prices. Are you surprised yields are
moving actually more volatility at the
moment than Brent crude?
>> Uh the front end, yes. And I think
again, that goes back to this idea that,
you know, if you walk in the shoes of a
central banker, your reaction function
has to look a little different relative
to a month ago, with a lot more emphasis
on upside risk to inflation and
inflation expectations, more
specifically, as opposed to downside
risks to to growth. So, for the front
end, I wasn't really surprised. The back
end, I actually think it played out
exactly as you would expect it, because
if you look at it in relative terms, US
has outperformed the rest of the world,
at least within G10. That kind of makes
sense in in my view. I mean, the oil
propensity or the oil intensity in the
US is is a lot lower than the rest of
world. That probably explains some of
the dollar outperformance, too, beyond
sort of the usual flight to quality. I
think the US is relatively uh more
insulated than the rest of the world.
>> There was some pre-existing nervousness
in this asset class heading into this.
Do you think this shock exacerbates some
of the issues in places like private
markets due to the tightening of
financial conditions?
>> On the margin, for sure. Uh, I think,
look, if you sort of reintroduce that
left tail of the distribution where
you're talking about hikes as opposed to
cuts, I think that changes the math for
a lot of these sort of over-leveraged,
weak capital structures. Yes, no
question.
>> In private markets, you've called it a
wake-up call. Why do you think this is a
wake-up call?
>> Well, look, there's a lot of questions
around, you know, private credit and and
direct lending in particular. And I
always kind of like to disentangle the
two because private credit is a lot
broader than just than just direct
lending in in my view. But, the
liquidity question is a really important
one.
I would highlight two things. And
sometimes this is lost in conversations,
but again, if you go back to '21, '22,
'23, you had record fundraising into
direct lending funds. Every time an
asset class grows at such a rapid pace,
you're prone to imbalances. You start
seeing deteriorating underwriting
standards, etc., etc. So, some of the
idiosyncratic credit events that we've
seen the last 2 months are, in my view,
a reflection of that. Then there's the
second question, which is, you know, the
marks and and how much of a signal are
you getting as an investor in terms of
valuation? I think, quite frankly, a lot
of people look at, you know, the
liquidity that public markets offer, the
fact that you have that real-time signal
that is reliable, and they're asking
questions about where the marks are on
the private side. And I think that
explains some of the pressure that
you've seen on redemptions.
>> Some firms want to change that. How
difficult is it to establish continuous
price discovery?
>> Very complicated, in my opinion. I mean,
first of all, there's a little bit of an
economic tension in that argument. The
whole thesis behind owning private
assets is precisely the illiquidity
premium that they offer. And so, it's
unclear to me that once you wrote that
premium, what's left, you know, in the
asset class. But, it's also complicated
for many other reasons. You need
standardization, you know, private
markets by design involve bespoke
transactions. There's a lot of
information asymmetry, etc. And then the
other thing that I would highlight is
that you do actually already have an
ecosystem of liquidity solutions that
are available to investors. That
ecosystem has been tested in private
equity for over two decades now. So, if
you need liquidity, it's there. It's
expensive. It's not free, but it's there
ready.
>> How would you characterize what we have
seen so far? You used the phrase
idiosyncratic. We've seen the
redemptions pick up. We've seen
different firms deal with that in
different ways. Would you call that
so-called liquidity noise, or do you
think there's been a deterioration in
the fundamentals?
>> Well, there is. I mean, look, private
credit is 20% software. That shock was
not foreseen, I think, you know, only
three to four months ago.
>> way some of these firms talk about it,
it's all the former and it's not the
latter.
>> Well, I think the reason you have that
narrative is because that 20% stat that
I mentioned, if you look at, you know,
BDC portfolios, it's 20% software. But,
there's quite a lot of dispersion across
managers. Some are closer to 40, some
are closer to 10, which is why you have
sometimes that that noise in the system.
But, in aggregate, there's large
exposure to software, and that's a
serious fundamental headwind.
>> Do you think this spills over to other
markets, or does it stay isolated?
>> There are some agencies with a broadly
syndicated loan market, for sure. We've
seen, you know, growing overlap at the
issuer base over the last couple of
years. The broadly syndicated loan
market is also heavily exposed to
software. But, I that's where I would
draw the line. I think high yield should
be fairly insulated.
>> Love face going to see you. And congrats
on the new role. I haven't seen you
since you got in the seat. So,
congratulations, sir. It's good to see
you. Love you, Curry, there now over at
PIMCO. We got some headlines just
moments ago from Spain and from the
Federal Reserve, as well. I want to
start in Spain. Some pressure building
on policymakers to offset the pain from
energy. So, energy reprices, and then
you have to provide an offset to the
people, to the electorate. Spain, one of
the first big movers.
>> Pedro Sanchez coming out here. He is
going to be the first one to move. And
now you have to wonder when is Meloni,
Macron, Mertz going to be lining up
next. So, what they are doing is they
are cutting uh taxes on fuel, on
electricity. So, the VAT on gasoline and
diesel, they're going to move from 10%
from That's going to be reduced to 10%
from 21%. A 5% Jonathan special tax on
electricity, that's going to be reduced.
So, what they're trying to do is just
make it a little bit easier at the
moment when it comes to this energy
shock that they're feeling from this
Iran war.
>> It's not a great mix, is it, in Europe
right now? The prospect of higher
interest rates, the prospect of more
spending with limited fiscal space.
Maybe not so much in Spain right now,
but UK has been really under pressure.
And at the Federal Reserve, there are
still some officials that want rate cuts
for 2026. And And Bowman over at the
Federal Reserve is pushing hard.
>> She's projecting three. She says says we
still are projecting three rate cuts for
2026. I think this is interesting. I
think at this moment, why not come out
and say that when you know you have a
new guy coming in that wants to be
dovish? Cuz her next line, of course,
has to be I expect Warsh to have, quote,
strong effect on Fed policy.
>> If Warsh arrives to the Federal Reserve
at some point this year, we'll see.
Future stocks negative by about 0.3 on
the S&P 500. The opening bell about 1
hour away. Up next, we'll catch up with
Mike Darda of Roth Capital as he'll
search on rising inflation risks. Plus,
Danny has your morning movers [music]
Dow gaining from Supermicro's losses.
That conversation up next.
Just taking a big yawn into the weekend,
it's a bit [music] calmer, I have to
say, relative to the craziness of
yesterday's session. Equity futures down
by about a quarter of 1% on the S&P and
the Nasdaq down by a third. Likewise on
the Russell, the small caps off to buy
0.3% heading towards another week of
declines here on the S&P 500. In the
bond market, big changes to the numbers
here relative to where we were at the
start of the month and the end of
February before this war started. We are
about 50 basis points higher on the
2-year at 384 on a 10-year. Haven't
broken through the upper end of the
range for the year just yet. That's
around here.
>> [music]
>> Right here, around 430, 429.46, but
we're getting close. Up by four basis
points on the session at the long end of
the curve. Yesterday interesting stuff,
the front end versus the long end. The
front end responding [music] to the move
in energy and how constrained central
banks are. Yields were much higher. At
the longer end, you start to see yields
fall. And that's the growth story, the
repricing of growth.
Starting to have that hit at the long
end of the curve. I guess you can call
that a curve twist. [music]
Now, that seems to be the story right
now.
>> The biggest concern in the forefront
today, tomorrow, [music] the next few
weeks for these economies is going to be
the inflationary impact. We're seeing
responses already from places like Spain
coming out and saying we're going to
lower the taxes when it comes to your
petrol. And then you have to think
long-term though, what does this mean
for [music] growth? Does this
inflationary story then start to hit
demand? Do we see demand destruction?
Does that start to hit growth of these
economies?
>> Right now, yields [music] up for the
front end by five basis points. That
curve flatter led by the front end. That
is a bear flattener. Right now, in the
commodity market, Brent and WTI shaping
up as follows. Brent crude and WTI
throughout this morning slightly lower
down by more than [music] 1% on the week
though higher on Brent crude, another
weekly gain, a fifth weekly gain on
Brent crude. 106.90 there on [music]
Brent this morning. That's some of the
cross cross asset price action. Let's
get you some single names. Danny Has
more. Hey, Danny.
>> [music]
>> Hey, John. A really wild story out
overnight on Supermicro Computer. The
co-founder [music] being charged by the
US government of illegally diverting
billions of dollars worth of Nvidia back
servers [music] to China. I I highly
recommend giving the story read. It
includes surveillance footage of them
taking hair blow dryers and melting and
changing and putting serial dummy serial
numbers on the servers. Maybe what Super
Micro is paying is Dell's gain. The
competitors Dell shares 4% as Super
Micro falls by 24 [music] and 1/2%.
Elsewhere we had earnings from FedEx
very solid. They raised their forecast.
They beat on all of their metrics. It
shows that their overhaul of their
business is taking effect and it is a
positive effect. mention the war in Iran
saying that they don't have [music] any
direct impact from it. They're able to
weather the storm. However, it could
have wider ramifications on the global
economy. Shares up 6.7%.
Finally wrapping things up with a little
bit of deal news this morning. Not huge
moves in these stocks. Unilever, this is
the US listed ADR, looking at selling
their $33 billion food business. We've
been reporting about this for a while.
It looks like we might have a buyer. We
have inbound interest from McCormick.
This is the Maryland based spice
business. So those shares of McCormick
up 3.7% John.
>> It's Annie, thank you. Thanks for the
update. More from Annie later on this
morning alongside Matt Miller. Let's
talk about this bond market move.
Investors weighing inflationary risk as
the war in Iran drags on. Michael Darda
of Roth Capital writing, "One risk is
that a cost push shock lowers the
neutral rate, but higher realized
inflation disguises it." Michael joins
us now for more. Mike, welcome to the
program. The twist flattener we saw
yesterday just for a moment where yields
were up at the front end and down at the
long end. It felt like we were really
starting to reprice growth lower. Where
do you think we are now?
>> Yeah, I think that's right Jonathan. I
mean, you have a situation here in the
bond market where we've essentially
taken out 325 basis point rate cuts from
market expectations over the next 12
months and you see that show up mostly
in the short end as you noted, but
there's been a little bit of upward
pressure in the long end too. I mean,
you know, 430 on the 10-year is almost
exactly the average over the course of
the last 3 years. So, it's nothing to
get super alarmed about, Uh uh but
markets definitely have priced out uh
the Fed easing that was expected uh just
a few months ago. And the Fed basically
confirmed that this week.
>> Mike, how would you describe this shock?
A growth shock, inflation shock,
stagflation shock? What would you call
it?
>> This is, Jonathan, a textbook
supply-side shock. So, it temporarily
will raise inflation, temporarily you
take a hit to real growth, real income.
And what do you do if you're a a central
bank, the Federal Reserve? Well, higher
inflation would tell you to raise rates,
lower growth would tell you to cut
rates. So, maybe you just don't do much.
>> That's what some members of the ECB are
thinking, but right here in the US, you
have Mickey Bowman saying still
expecting three cuts for 2026. Is she
just maybe trying to align politically
with the new incoming boss, or is that
really on the table?
>> Yeah. Well, maybe there's still a little
bit of lobbying for the top job going on
there, but that is outside of the
consensus on the FOMC. And if we look at
the Fed's forecast, I mean, what did
they do? They actually raised their real
GDP forecast. They raised the inflation
forecast. So, that's not a situation in
which the consensus on the Fed is going
to move uh to embrace ongoing easing.
And so, whoever takes over for Jerome
Powell, if it's Kevin Warsh, I mean,
he's going to have to bring the rest of
the committee along. And if the data
doesn't support the easing, you know,
then he's not going to be able to
deliver on these implicit promises
uh that, you know, he he likely gave in
terms of lowering policy rates after
getting the top job.
>> That's twice now that you implied that
maybe it won't be Warsh. I don't mean
to, you know, take this excursion, but
you said that maybe someone's still
lobbying, and if he gets the job, do you
think actually Kevin Warsh over to the
Fed is in jeopardy?
>> Well, I wouldn't go that far. Um you
know, I think most likely uh he'll he'll
make the confirmation and and then be
the next Fed chair. Uh but you still
have this situation uh where the Fed is
under investigation. Uh Senator Tillis
said, you know, we're not it we're not
going to vote on uh a confirmation until
that is dealt with. So, things are still
a little bit up in the air and you saw
the press conference with Powell. I
mean, I think he's feeling pretty
comfortable and confident even
potentially staying on a little bit
longer, which certainly got under uh the
skin of President Trump.
>> Mike, what was your reaction to what he
had to say about succession and
potentially staying on?
>> Yeah, I think that, you know,
considering the circumstances,
uh I think those comments were very
circumspect. Uh I mean, look, I I'm a
fan of Powell. I think that, you know,
he's not flawless. He's made mistakes,
but boy, you cannot look at the last 3
years and not give the Powell-led Fed a
tremendous amount of credit. I mean, we
came out of a 2-year inflation surge and
they soft landed the US economy in a way
that's virtually unprecedented, never
seen in history, essentially.
And, you know, I've been saying Fed
chair Powell is the best friend
President Trump never knew he had. So,
you know, he's done a a phenomenal job
here in a very complicated macro
situation.
>> Uh Mike, you better at me than this and
I hate to go over some of the history,
but do we give him too much credit for
some of that? Isn't that due to Biden
just turning a blind eye to what was
happening on the southern border and
letting millions of people into this
country to work?
>> Yeah, well, I mean, look, the the supply
side of the economy did pick up just at
the right time for the Fed. So, the
surge in the labor force and then the
reversal in some of the supply side
disruptions with supply chains and the
like uh did help productivity to pick up
right as the Fed was trying to tighten
to to lower inflation. So, that
definitely did support the business
cycle. Powell acknowledged that. You
know, he essentially said we're getting
a a tailwind from the supply side and
that is helping on the inflationary
front. So, your point is
uh is not invalid.
Um and I would say Powell acknowledged
that, but still to be able to pull off
what the Fed did with 530 basis points
of rate hikes and skirting a
recessionary outcome, absolutely
unprecedented. So, maybe it was a bit of
luck and maybe it was a bit of skill
combined.
>> Well, Mike, it's funny we end up having
this conversation because it is relevant
to today because the politics has
changed and that supply side cushion is
no longer there anymore. So, when you
have a shock like this one
in energy, do you think it makes us more
prime, more vulnerable to second order
effects, particularly given the
different tightness in the labor market?
>> It definite definitely could. I mean,
there's no real labor force growth going
on now. We have this cost push shock
underway. The only silver lining, and it
may save the day ultimately here, is
that trend productivity has visibly
picked up now for the cycle. The
quarter-to-quarter movements are too
noisy to really divine a trend, but if
you take the average non-farm
productivity growth for this cycle so
far, it's running at about 2.3% versus
1.6 in the last cycle. And these are
still early days to really see any AI
effects. So, that I think could go a
long way to sustaining this business
cycle if we can surmount some of these
shocks that, you know, the geopolitical
situation could get much dicier. So, I
think that, you know, that that really
is the the big uncertainty factor here.
In terms of the, you know, the labor
force growth, if trend productivity can
mimic the pickup that we saw with the
infotech boom, we could still get growth
potential pretty close to 3% even
without any labor force growth
organically. So, it could still be a
pretty good supply side story there, but
if oil goes to $150 to $200 a barrel
because there's some kind of, you know,
protect protracted closure of the Strait
of Hormuz, you know, then I think you've
got a much more complicated scenario, at
least in the short term.
>> just don't know what kind of scenario
we've got to deal with, and they don't
either. All they can tell us is this is
the balance of risk, and this is our
reaction function. They've had a bias to
ease now for quite a while. This is from
BNP Paribas, Mike. I'd love your
reaction to it. We expect the Fed to
adopt a symmetric policy bias indicating
that a rate hike or a cut is equally
likely to come at its April meeting.
Now, that of course is dependent on
developments in the Middle East, but do
you think we're that far away from a
change like that one?
>> Yeah, I think they're basically there
now in terms of not moving policy rates
and allowing the market to price out
those expectations. I mean, they could
easily they could easily push against
those expectations, and Powell, speaking
for the rest of the committee, did not
do that. Uh basically, he, you know,
cemented those expectations.
And so, the Fed's just not convinced at
this point that the economy is set to
weaken in a dramatic way. If that change
is, then obviously the policy rate uh
trajectory will will change as well. But
I think prior to this shock, I mean, the
Fed was gearing up for a rebound, a
re-acceleration. So, I think we were,
you know, getting quite close to the end
of this rate-cutting cycle in any event,
and now we've got this complicating
geopolitical
factor that's in the mix as well.
>> Certainly a complication, that's for
sure. Mike, it's good to hear from you,
as always. Have a nice weekend, sir.
Michael Darda there of Roth Capital.
Heading into the weekend, things
changed. Things changed for this
committee and for one official on the
Federal Reserve in particular, Governor
Waller. Governor Waller sat around this
table and talked about the importance of
the next jobs report. And he said if
it's weak, then I'm going to lean
towards a rate cut. I'm paraphrasing
here, but that was the bias for him. So,
it was a surprise when we saw the
statement this week that didn't have a
descent from Governor Waller, because
the jobs report was weak. Speaking to
the press just moments ago, stands at
one thing and it's obvious it's down to
that one thing, the Strait of Hormuz and
the shock in the Middle East.
>> And the concern that this could be more
prolonged. If the Strait is not opened
up or rather if Iran, which controls it
right now, is only letting certain boats
and ships through, if does not let the
normal navigation of travel and for oil
and energy products to continue flowing
through, potentially that is going to
mean inflation could be more elevated
and starts to seep through in the rest
of the economy. Basically saying his
brain understands the jobs math,
Jonathan, but his gut can't say it's
okay. There's concern right now in the
geopolitical sphere.
>> Yes, still speed. I think it's a real
worry about still speed in the labor
market at the same time again the
squeeze in the commodity market. Brent
crude at the moment down by 1.4% 107 on
Brent WTI at around 95. Let's get you an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Yohai has more. Hey
Yohai.
>> Hey John.
The Trump administration is considering
plans to occupy or blockade Iran's Kharg
Island. [music] Axios reporting the
operation would be used to pressure Iran
to reopen the Strait [music] of Hormuz.
It would only be launched after the US
military further degrades Tehran's
military. The Pentagon [music] is
considering sending more troops to the
region with three Marine units already
on their way.
The IEA is warning it could take months
to restore oil and gas flows from the
Persian Gulf. Execu- The executive
director telling the Financial Times
politi- Politicians and markets are
underestimating [music] the scale of the
disruption. He went on to say some oil
production sites could need well over
six months to become operational again.
And in sports, March Madness kicking off
with VCU storming back to upset North
Carolina in overtime
>> [music]
>> and High Point University beat defeating
Wisconsin by one point. Top seeded Duke
and Michigan surviving early scares to
advance [music]
and one day into the men's tournament
Citadel's Ken Griffin topping the
leaderboard in the 11th annual Bloomberg
brackets for a cause. That's your
Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Is there anything Ken's not good at?
Thank you, Yohara. Not bad, eh?
>> I forgot to do it.
Jamie Berlin was supposed to fill mine
out, but wow, Ken Griffin, good for you.
>> our long-time producer over the years,
usually does mine, too.
>> Did he do yours?
>> No, I didn't.
>> I forgot. I was too busy.
>> a message yesterday. I I [music] just I
never watch it, so I can't get into it.
>> I Honestly, I was winning, I think, last
[music] year in the women's. That's
because Bria, that's because Bria, our
producer, helped me do it. I If you You
have really need to know the teams
before you start messing around with
these brackets.
>> Very cool. Up next on the program, we'll
catch up with Jonathan Golub of Seaport
as stocks head for a fourth consecutive
week of losses. [music] From New York
City, you're watching Bloomberg TV.
>> It's almost like the market is saying,
"Maybe this can still be a short-lived
event."
>> I'm increasingly nervous the market's
not pricing this in.
>> The market's not giving us much of a
buying opportunity.
>> There's going to be continued pullback,
but I think that it's going to be viewed
as an opportunity.
>> A lot of nervousness underneath the
market. We still have an opportunity to
bounce back.
>> Most assets should be able to come back
within a month or two months if and when
the war ends.
>> It's going to be a really bumpy ride.
>> It's been a hell of a bumpy ride of the
week so far. We're taking stock and
taking a deep breath going into the
weekend. This is what the ride looks
like this morning. Equity futures on the
S&P 500 negative by 0.4%
on the Nasdaq down by 0.5 in the bond
market. Talk about a bumpy ride. Never
mind the commodity market in the fixed
income market. Two-year yields up by
eight basis points this [music] morning,
pushing 390. Once again, we have had a
50 basis point move at the front end of
the yield curve on twos, and double that
in the UK on a 10-year at the moment,
43084, up by six basis points, and
looking to make some new highs for the
year on a 10-year maturity as
governments worldwide start to react to
an energy shock. Spain the first really
to come out with an economic package,
put a number on it, and say what they're
going to do to offset some of the pain.
>> We're going to have to see more
governments potentially line up. We've
already seen this administration, a
number of governments around the world
say they're going to tap their strategic
petroleum reserves. Now Spain is saying
we're going to cut some of the taxes. I
mean, energy in Europe is more heavily
taxed than it is in the United States,
but Spain I think is the first of many
that are going to come out with packages
like this.
>> Interest rates reacting, rate pricing
reacting, taking out the easing at the
Federal Reserve, pricing in the hikes of
the ECB at the Bank of England. I talked
about that 50 basis point [music] move
at the front end of the curve in the UK.
In the US, double that in the UK. We've
had a 50% [music]
move on Brent so far this month. Call it
48. Crude right now at around 107. On
the session, Brent looks like this. Down
by about 1%. WTI is actually down on the
week, believe it or not. And that spread
at one point earlier this week, it's
crazy, wasn't it? It was almost $20
between Brent and WTI at one point this
week.
>> A massive [music] spread, and right now
Brent crude is much lower than what
Saudi officials, according to the Wall
Street Journal, are projecting if this
conflict [music] lasts until the end of
April, Jonathan. They say we can get to
180 on Brent, but this is small compared
what the physical barrels, what Oman and
Dubai contracts are showing. They're
showing 155, 160, 170 dollars a barrel.
>> Let's get to the stock market. Stocks
[music] heading for a fourth straight
week of losses. Jonathan Golub of
Seaport writing the market has not had
the defensive rotation that would be
consistent with the current environment.
Jonathan joins us now for more.
Jonathan, good to see you.
>> Good to see you.
>> you mean by that line?
>> Well, I mean, we're seeing the market
offer. So, the market's not off by a
ton. It's off by about 4% and and it
could be a heck of a lot worse. But, the
>> highs.
>> But, the but defensive sectors like
healthcare and consumer staples are down
by the same amount that industrials and
materials are down. So, if the market
was really panicking, you're talking
about these governments taking this
these emergency actions and and all.
But, in reality, if the market was was
really as concerned as as we're painting
here, then what you would see is that
industrials and materials and cyclical
sectors would be getting hammered and
people would be rotating into healthcare
and utilities and REITs and that is not
happening. The market's taking it in
stride.
>> saying the market. I want to talk about
the market. When I look at the bond
market,
>> Right.
>> I see a market that's pricing in a
massive change. When I look at the
commodity market, I see another market
pricing in a massive change. Gas prices
in Europe have doubled
>> Sure.
>> weeks. Brent's up 50%. We've had massive
moves in energy, big moves in bonds.
It's the equity market that's not
bothered at all by this. Why is that?
>> Well, I think there's other things in
the market that that you can kind of,
you know,
you know, look at which is gold is down
substantially. If there was a real if
there was a real sense of of of
overwhelming concern,
gold would be going up. If you look at
high-yield spreads,
>> to push back on gold. Gold's getting
slammed because we're repricing rates.
There's some speculation also that some
gold holders aren't getting the oil
revenue they were getting and they need
to monetize the holdings. There's
reasons for gold to be down and they're
not good reasons.
>> look at other things. Let's Let's look
at the Vix. The Vix was almost 20 before
the war. It's in the mid-20s now. It's
up, but if this was if this was really a
a panic if this was disorderly in the
market and it is not, you would see
something like high yield spreads, which
are a prediction of
is this going to hit the economy in a
way that people can't make their loan
payments and the the the high yield
spread market saying is not a little but
but nothing to Now, maybe that means
that there's just too much complacency,
but it's not just equities. We're seeing
it in a number of other places.
>> I'm trying to figure out, John. We can
spend some time on this. Equities have
been well behaved.
>> Yes. Spreads are still pretty tight.
>> That's the pool of risk assets in both
credit, high yield, and in equities.
>> Yes.
>> That's what's interesting to me, not
necessarily concerning, but interesting
that you've had such a great repricing
in energy. Now, you've had it in rates,
but you haven't really had it in the
assets that are most sensitive to a
repricing of growth. I'm trying to work
out why.
>> Well, so if you look at if you look at
what's what's what has changed is the
and I'm looking at the US market, the
expectation of two Fed cuts has been
taken off of off of the table. We can
debate whether that's whether that's
properly calibrated.
>> Sure.
>> But but that's changed. If you consider
that move on the short end of the curve,
the long end of the curve has not has
been reasonably orderly against that.
It's moved about half of that amount on
the on the 10-year bond yield. So, I I
don't think the yield curve is doing
anything that crazy. Oil Of course, oil
prices are going to be disrupted.
However, if you look at the oil curve,
where does the market think oil is going
to be at the end of the year? 3 months,
6 months, 12 months, 20 4 months. It's
heavily backwardized. They meaning this
is the market's pricing this as a
near-term shock, which is going to
relatively quickly, but not not
immediately, resolve itself. And it what
equities are going to ask what the
equity market should be asking is if I'm
looking back at this event at the end of
the year
is this a is this a if if this is a it
is a headache then are we or is this a
footnote and and this will uh proven to
be a buying opportunity. The market
right now is is not panicking on this
thing.
>> But we don't know yet. I understand
where prices are in terms of
backwardation for oil, but we don't know
yet if this is going to be prolonged.
The Saudi Arabia's talking about $180.
You have Governor Waller talking about
this is going to creep into core. At
some point, isn't this going to hit
balance sheets?
>> Well, first uh
Listen, we we always don't know. I mean,
we you know, if you if we roll back the
clock at you know, to uh let's say, you
know,
in the middle of of um of February, we
were asked with the question that we
were we were I was here about 5 weeks
ago. We're asking, what does AI do? Is
it going to demolish the software
sector? Are we going to have employment
ever again? What's going to happen? And
the answer is
we don't know. I I mean, and that's what
equity markets try to do. They try to,
you know, put some type of a prediction.
And what I'm saying is if the equity
markets
have a voice right now, they're saying
>> They're like they think of taco. That's
what it feels like. Equity markets are
viewing this as Trump always chickens
out and this
>> No, I I don't I don't think so. I think
that what the equity markets are saying
is is that this will not metastasize
into something which is larger. They're
not saying that that Trump is going to
cut and run. What they're saying is is
that worst case scenarios of us getting
mired there and the straits being closed
and oil staying at, you know, hitting
180 and staying there, that the
likelihood of that happening is is
[music] not is is not your base case.
>> Jonathan, I enjoyed this. It's good to
see you. It's calm. There's no panic in
the equity market. That's a good thing.
It could be worse.
>> okay?
>> That's good. I don't think it's bad. I
don't have a bias either way. It's good
to see [music] you. I'm happy to see
you. That's my bias.
>> For sure.
>> Jonathan Golub there of Seaport from New
York City. Have a wonderful [music]
weekend. From New York City, this was
Bloomberg Surveillance.